TITLE: Apocalypse BREAKER Book 1
AUTHOR: Aaron Renfroe
SERIES: Apocalypse BREAKER (Book 1)
WORDS EXTRACTED: 6005
============================================================

Chapter 1: Packages

Bzzz! Bzzz!

I woke to the sound of my phone vibrating against my palm. Forcing crusted eyes open, I checked the message.

Courier #137, this our third attempt to contact you. A high-value parcel is scheduled for drop-off today in [30] minutes. If you reject this job, you will be removed from the service. Are you available? [Yes or No]; Delivery Payment [$350]; Offer Expiration [5 minutes]

My heartbeat thudded into my temples, threatening to bring the migraine back. Sitting up slowly, one hand on my forehead, I glanced at the window near the ceiling of my subterranean room. Orange street light shone through, backlighting streaks of rain.

“It’s too early for this shit,” I croaked, pulling my legs together and closing my eyes again.

Inhale. Exhale.

Gradually, the pain began to recede.

Bzzz! Bzzz!

Courier #137, this our fourth attempt to contact you. A high-value parcel is scheduled for drop-off today in [28] minutes. If you reject this job, you will be removed from the service. Are you available? [Yes or No]; Delivery Payment [$350]; Offer Expiration [3 minutes]

CRASH!

I felt the lance of pain before realizing what I’d done. My night lamp, a cheap thing Mom had gotten me from a thrift store, lay in shattered pieces against the wall. The tooth-grinding anger came with the pain.

If they’d only given me a few more minutes, I’d be fine.

Gotta behave like a normal person, I told myself. Mom and Dad need you to do this, Dean.

I grabbed the phone and thumbed Yes.

Courier #137, you are [CONFIRMED]. Please proceed to [Secure Airport Receiving Terminal C]. Bring your ID. Your drop off point will be [TAP FOR GPS]. You have [27] minutes to collect the package. [Warning] We are monitoring atmospheric anomalies and expect internet issues throughout the morning. Download backup coordinates using [THIS BUTTON].

Tapping the button to download the coordinates, I climbed out of bed and dressed. Since my job required discretion as well as an eye on security, my kit was simple: durable black khaki pants with extra pockets, and two shirts. Grabbing my all-weather jacket, which happened to be combat rated, I walked out of my room.

My brother’s door stood open across the hall from me. A poster on the front had a dramatic scene from some fantasy game, with a dude holding a sword to the sky on it. The words HONOR ABOVE ALL! were stenciled across the top in an embossed, eye-jarring font.

Seeing the poster dried my mouth. Walking over, I reached out, intending to close the door, but froze at the sight of his room. Someone, Mom probably, had left a table light on. It spilled cheerful, warm light across the small interior space.

It was just as it had been before the accident.

Game stuff covered every surface, including the bookshelves. There was barely any room for the bed, much less a computer or personal belongings. Entire armies of miniatures crowded along the headboard, each hand-painted and meticulously posed.

That was my brother, the geek.

Had been my brother, I reminded myself.

Squeak!

I’d gripped the door handle too tightly, and the thin wooden frame was not happy about it. Forcing a calming breath, I closed the door and turned away. Walking down the hall away from our rooms, I made my way up the old metal stairs to the main floor.

My family’s house was on the edge of the city, which made living in a place so spacious affordable. The main floor was the family space, with hardwood floors and tapestries covering the walls to brighten it up. Half of them were Mom’s, donated by her clients. The other half were Brian’s; just more geeky crap, with cheesy slogans that didn’t mean anything.

Making my way into the shoebox kitchen, I found a note on the refrigerator.

Dean, client meetings ran late. Please let me sleep in. Your dad is on-site in Florida for that new construction job and won’t be back for a few days. If you need a snack, check the tinfoil. Also, don’t forget your medicine. Top drawer, next to the counter.

There were four wrapped meals inside the refrigerator, along with bottled water. With a murmured, “Thanks, Mom,” I pocketed two bundles of tinfoil and a bottle of water, then went to the drawer.

My pill bottle had the words Amitriptyline (Elavil) in bold letters on the side. Below, it read, 250mg. Take one pill daily, with food for migraines and mood issues. Monthly Refills: Unlimited.

I opened the bottle, tipping it into my palm.

Nothing came out.

With the migraines keeping me shut in for the past few days, I’d missed the timing for my normal refill. Biting back an urge to curse, I pocketed the bottle and checked my phone. I was down to just twenty minutes to get to the pickup point, which meant I had no time to go back to my room and scrounge for backups.

“Screw it,” I muttered, heading out the front door.

The rain fell in sheets so thick it splashed up the curb. Thankfully, I wore waterproof combat boots, so that wasn’t a problem. Holding my jacket hood high, I jogged a few feet to my dull blue Nissan LEAF and got inside.

No Network Detected.

The car started smoothly, but the central console made it clear I wouldn’t be using GPS this morning.

Temples throbbing in time with the thud of the rain, I eased my car into the narrow street and onto the road leading to the airport. I was just two miles away, which should make things simple.

I drove as fast as I could while remaining safe. Between the rain and the headache, the streetlights became blinding smears, further obscuring my vision. Halfway to my destination, the sky caught on fire.

Chapter 2: Outages

My headache went into overdrive. In mind-breaking agony, I swerved and slammed on the brakes. The car jerked and vibrated, then hydroplaned through a puddle of water. Between the rain, the halo of light from the migraine, and the pain, I couldn’t see what happened next.

SNAP!

I felt the impact through the steering wheel in my hands and an echo in my throbbing head. The sound of impact only added to the pain.

It was in such situations as these when my brother, Brian, would have told me to ‘Roll Fortitude’ or something equally dumb. People could ‘push past’ pain like this in his stories, but not in real life. No matter how much I’d tried explaining that to him, he’d just grinned and went on with it.

Thinking about my brother made my hands clench, which only made everything worse.

Eventually, after what felt like decades, the migraine receded just enough for me to see what had happened. Opening my car door, I tucked my shoulders against the rain and stepped into ankle deep, soaking wet grass.

I was in luck. My car had struck a road sign, but I’d managed to slow it down enough there was no real damage other than a little crack in the bumper.

Back in my car, I checked the time. I had eight minutes to get to the drop-off spot and I still hadn’t picked up the package. Glancing up, I checked the sky, wondering what caused those fiery colors I’d seen. Other than frequent spates of lightning, there was nothing.

How are they flying in this? I wondered, putting the car into reverse, then gradually accelerating down the road.

At the security checkpoint, a young woman in a rain jacket brusquely asked to check my credentials. I came through frequently enough to recognize most of the security staff there. She wasn’t familiar.

Forcing a smile, I lowered my window and did my best to ignore the rain as I held up my badge. It listed me as Dean Williams; Clearance: Secret; Courier for Telyon Supplies.

The woman swept me over with her flashlight. I was your typical nineteen-year-old, with long, lanky black hair and a nondescript build.

“You don’t look military,” she said, sounding suspicious.

It was a common enough misconception that Secret clearance required military service. “I’m not. Telyon paid for the background checks when I got the position. It was part of the onboarding process.”

She frowned, seeming about to think the situation over while rain soaked the interior of my car. Lightning flashed, striking nearby, and the sky growled, flickering with angry reds and oranges.

That must have been what I saw earlier, I thought.

With visible reluctance, she waved her flashlight. “Go on through.”

She ducked into the guard station, flicking the button to raise the security arm and lower the concrete pylons. I drove through, speeding up a bit more than was technically legal. The clock was ticking, and I couldn’t afford to lose my job.

I made it to the designated pickup and drop-off point a minute late. A group of three upset-looking people in military fatigues were waiting for me. They hadn’t brought umbrellas, so their expressions of annoyance made total sense as I started out of the car.

The delivery spot was in a fenced, heavily monitored area next to the airport. Nearby, just a few hundred feet away on the tarmac, sat a small military plane. I didn’t recognize the make or model, not that it mattered.

“You the courier?” The man at the front of the group said, holding up a flashlight.

“That’s me.” I showed my paperwork, and one of the soldiers behind him held out a small, brown package. Accepting it, I gestured at the group. “Three of you, just to hand this to me?”

He grimaced. “We’re doing this to save the pilot from getting soaked while we wait.”

“Speaking of waiting,” the female soldier of the group said. I thought she might have been a blonde but could barely make out her features as she pointed. “She’s here.”

We all looked, spotting another aircraft as it appeared beneath thick, turbulent clouds. Lightning strafed around the large, cargo-style plane, outlining it in a fashion my brother would have described as ‘ominous’.

With a halfhearted wave, the military trio jogged away, leaving me holding the now damp package in one hand. Shrugging, I got back in my car. The internet was still out, but I’d downloaded the coordinates before the interruption, so I drove back past the guard station, into town, and then onto the bypass.

My destination wasn’t far, just fifteen miles away in the industrial complex north of the city. I’d delivered in that area before and knew it well enough.

The rain remained awful the entire way, as did my headache. I took it slow, grateful that it was still early enough that there weren’t a lot of cars out. About halfway to the place, I thumbed the controls on the steering wheel, turning the radio on.

A local news channel came on, the polished, professional tones of the male anchor in mid-sentence.

“…if you’re just tuning in, you’re probably wondering what’s going on with the internet. Well, like the outages we’ve seen in other places, it appears multiple critical servers detonated in a station just north of the city. Telecom engineers are working on replacing damaged servers, but it may take a while. There’s still no word on why these disruptions are happening, or how. Investigators have suggested it may be due to coronal mass ejections. More on that in our next piece. As for local weather, expect continued torrential rain and lightning storms for at least another eight hours.”

Coronal mass ejections, my ass. For weeks now, the internet outages had been getting worse, and happening all over. Not long ago, basically all of China had gone dark due to so-called ‘mysterious causes.’

Someone was up to something. Everyone knew it, and it was only a matter of time before we found out who and why.

I flicked the radio over to a music channel, forcing myself to sit through local advertisements before crappy music came on to keep me company.

My destination ended up being a nondescript building on the far side of a smelly paper mill, across a river. There was no signage, other than a black and white triangle-shaped logo above the heavily reinforced front door.

The parking lot was open, with no signs of security, and only a few cars. I pulled into a spot near the front, then checked my phone.

Network Down. Have you arrived at the location?

I clicked yes. The screen updated with the drop off instructions.

Dropoff to: Dr. Hannah Lestor

Additional Details: The location has a security door. Show your ID and they will badge you in. Retain control of the package until Dr. Hannah Lestor accepts the package. If the recipient is not on site, call this number for additional options.

Backup Number: 1-329-201-2201 Option #3, Option #7

An image of a middle-aged, vaguely pretty woman appeared beneath the text.

Pocketing the phone, I got out of the car and ran to the entrance.

I noticed a security camera, nestled above a palm scanner a few seconds before a tired man’s voice came through. “You the courier?”

“That’s me.” I held up my ID and the package.

Bzz. The door clicked open.

A bronze-skinned, overweight man in a security uniform met me inside. Short, with an affable look about him, he reminded me of every plain mall cop I’d ever seen, except for his sidearm. It looked heavy, military issue, and had a matte black finish.

Seeing my gaze, he flicked me a smile. “You ought to see the guys we’ve got downstairs at the vault, bud. They’re the real deal.” Holding his hand out, he said, “I’m Julio. Nice to meet you, Dean. You want me to take the package from here?”

I took his hand but shook my head. “Sorry man, this only goes to Dr. Hannah Lestor.” Fetching my phone, I showed him the instructions, just to make it clear I wasn’t being deliberately stubborn.

Sometimes, during drop-offs to these types of locations, the people I interacted with were real sticklers, and could cause all sorts of headaches. The last thing I needed right now was to do anything to make mine worse.

Julio took one glance at the screen, waved my explanation away, and gestured for me to follow. “She’s in the lab. Just let me see if she’s got the bandwidth to come up.”

We walked through a tight, rectangular hallway framed in black stone material. There were no plaques, or signs, or even pictures of any of the staff. It was similar to a government installation, minus law enforcement.

The hall widened into a proper reception area, with an empty desk next to a pair of elevators. Air conditioning blasted through vents in the roof, giving the space a cool, vaguely antiseptic aroma.

As Julio walked around the desk to pick up the corded phone, I looked around. The room split down a few hallways, one with a sign for bathrooms and another for janitorial supplies, but nothing else caught my eye.

“Hey. This is Julio. I have the package delivery guy. Eh, no. He won’t hand it to me, says you have to sign for it.”

I watched the security guy’s face scrunch as whoever was on the other side, Hannah Lestor I assumed, said something he didn’t care for.

“You know the team won’t like me bringing him down. Yeah, he’s got clearance, but that’s not…Fine. Tell you what, you let them know we’re bringing a civvy down and I’ll bring him to you. Fair?”

She must have agreed, because he clicked the phone down and pointed me to an elevator. “Dr. Hannah says she’ll meet you outside of her lab. Let’s go.” Julio’s previously affable tone was gone, replaced with a brusque efficiency.

I noticed with mild bemusement that he even moved a little differently, too. Maybe the slow, overweight guard routine wasn’t everything it appeared to be.

The elevator dinged open, and we descended three floors. As we did, I felt my migraine gradually easing. When we got to our destination, it was gone entirely, like someone had waved a magic wand at my forehead or something.

Julio waved for me to walk ahead, and we stepped into a room that has the vibe of a bank waiting area. The ceiling was domed and taller than I would have expected, maybe fifteen feet above us. It had wide steel beams bracing it, with thick rivets. Mirroring the hall upstairs, the walls of this room were all the same black stone-type material. The furniture, at least, looked normal.

Two doors split from the waiting room. One was labeled Lab 315 (Authorized Personnel Only). The other was Networking.

Taking a seat in one of the waiting chairs, Julio folded his hands over his stomach. “This may take a bit. You might as well sit.”

I did, choosing to take up a position across from the man. The lack of pressure from the headache was making me feel a bit more optimistic.

“So, how long have you been doing this courier stuff?”

“Six months.” Seeing no reason not to volunteer, I went on. “My mom is a lawyer, with a few connections. She put in a good word.”

“Ah. Makes sense.” Julio bobbed his head, dark eyes looking me over. “What kind of training do they give you guys?”

“Uh, not much, really. I’m supposed to be getting certified with firearms soon, and I had to pass a basic physical aptitude test. That’s all.” I wasn’t precisely in great shape, but I wasn’t far from it. Exercise helped with the migraines; and up until a few months ago, I’d practiced Brazilian Jiu Jitsu and Muay Thai with Brian three days a week.

Dad had enrolled both of us in martial arts classes as soon as we’d gotten to grade school. My temper had been a problem back then, too. Fortunately, his guess about giving me a healthy outlet had worked. As soon as we’d begun sparring practice, I’d stopped feeling the need to lash out at literally every authority figure who dared speak to me.

Mostly.

The security guard shook his head disapprovingly, lips tight as if trying to hold back from saying something he shouldn’t.

Click.

The door to the lab opened. From where I’d chosen to sit, I got a little view of the room beyond. Several men stood back there, each armed to the teeth, complete with bullet proof vests and rifles. Dr. Lestor stepped into our room, closing the door quickly behind her before walking toward me.

The woman matched her picture, only with bags under her brightly shining eyes. Holding up her badge, she waved for me to hand the package over.

I did, expecting her to tell me to go. Instead, she said, “Hold on. You can take the soggy trash out with you.”

Grabbing a sharp knife from a pocket, she sliced the box open, removing the stuffing to reveal a black case maybe eight inches across. Lifting it by a thin metal handle, she put her knife away, then pressed her thumb to a fingerprint scanner on the top.

The box clicked open, revealing a palm-sized piece of computer equipment. I thought it was a CPU, although the design wasn’t familiar. It was rectangular and black, with bits sticking out from the sides and beneath. With a motion, Hannah touched something on the device, and it began to glow a faint, pulsing amethyst hue.

“There we go,” she said. “All in working order. You can take the box up with you. Once the internet is back up, I’ll make sure your company knows we’re good to go.”

I reached for the empty box.

That was when the roof to the room imploded, and a roar of challenge echoed through the air.

Chapter 3: Killer Instinct

Debris filled the air, and I felt a heavy body collide with mine as Julio tackled both me and the doctor. We fell to the hard ground, the impact stealing my breath as sounds of gunfire roared into the chamber.

Someone, a man, shouted, “Contact! We have contact! Get the doctor out of here!”

I felt Julio twist and sensed him drawing his sidearm as two people came rushing up to grab Dr. Hannah. She’d partially fallen on me, though I hadn’t noticed her weight compared to Julio’s until it vanished.

Rotating, wiping my eyes, I tried to make sense of what was happening.

Something huge had ripped open the ceiling, claws like excavation equipment ripping through wood and bending metal out of the way. A face appeared in the hole, the shape and features familiar yet twisted.

It appeared to be a dragon mixed with a mushroom and a demon. The face was vaguely wedge shaped, with a fanning crest around the neck. Algae growths covered its scales, forming thick patches over an eyeless face. Its scales, I noted, were two toned, starting dark red at the top and fading to burnt orange at the bottom.

Brrrrrr-At-At-Tat-Tat!

Gunfire went off as the security men shot the thing in the face, the bullets leaving thumb-thick dents in the flesh. Jaws opening, I saw the monster had two sets, one inside the other, making it an organic trash compactor. The outermost set opened horizontally, revealing thousands of spikes and an inner pair opened sideways, corkscrewing as it spread apart to reveal an orange glow.

I expected a fireball.

Instead, gravity changed.

I fell upward, flying towards what had been the ceiling. Julio grabbed my leg with one hand and, dropping his gun, found a piece of metal with the other. Barely noticing, I bit back a scream of raw terror as I saw several of the armed security guys float within range of the dragon’s claws.

It swiped once, clawing through them with all the effort I might have used on warm butter. Viscera and blood filled the air, floating into the dragon’s waiting mouth.

Twisting, I saw Dr. Hannah and the men who’d been trying to rescue her frozen at the doorway. They’d gotten hold of the door, and one another. A muscular guy was straining, face pale with effort, as he held onto Hannah with one hand and the rest of his team clung to other parts of the door.

“What the shit was that?” Julio said, voice right next to my ear or I wouldn’t have made it out.

A figure had climbed down from behind the ridges of the monster’s back. The creature tipped its head to one side, slamming its crest into an intact portion of the wall hard enough to make room for the newcomer.

It was a man, or at least I thought it was. He was dressed in an outfit that had a military design, by way of someone who’d played way too many roleplaying games. It had both the bulky, plate feel of old time knights yet also bent and flexed as he moved. As he leaped to the ground, I saw one bulky-looking shoulder guard flex out of the way of a low-hanging strip of metal.

The newcomer said something in a clicking language, then drew a long, jagged sword from a sheath on its hip. Walking through the room, he casually slashed at one of the still-floating security guards.

Entrails flew from the man’s tattered stomach as he howled in pain.

I looked away, unable to process what was happening. When I did, I noticed the dragon-thing again. It was scanning the room, its jaws closed again.

No, not the room, I realized, tracing the point of its chin to where I guessed it was paying attention. It’s focused on that knight guy.

A low growl echoed from the dragon as gravity abruptly ceased its pull. Julio and I slammed into the ground, but not before I noticed something else strange about the dragon. The crest around its neck had a vague purple glow, almost identical to the CPU I’d seen earlier.

“Get the restraint bracelet!” Dr. Hannah screamed as she slammed against the doorway and ducked through. “Left wrist. Dragons hate the System. If you can get it off, the dragon will kill this asshole.”

I didn’t know what to make of her words, other than the fact that this knight-person had something on his wrist that might help us survive this. Looking over, I saw she was right. He did, indeed, have a thin purple bracelet wrapped around a gloved wrist.

The surviving security guys, all five of them, responded like pros. Moving together, two went one way, drawing the man’s attention, as the other two went the opposite. Their final team member aimed and fired point-blank right at the knight’s armored head.

I couldn’t tell if the bullet did anything.

Ignoring the soldiers, the knight pointed down the corridor and growled a word. I felt something then. It pulled at my stomach and sent a wave of icy clarity through my thoughts. Instead of having a migraine, I felt the exact opposite as a calm, soothing sensation washed away lingering grief and pain.

The feeling didn’t last long, as a sphere of black light projected from the knight’s hand and darted down the hall. There was a brief silence, followed by a scream and a wet-sounding explosion.

All five security guys unloaded. Julio struggled to his feet, grabbing a knife clipped to his belt. Unsheathing it, I saw the jagged blade was one of those ultra-sharp diver’s knives. Glancing at the dragon and seeing that it seemed content to watch what was happening, he murmured, “Stay here, kid,” then began circling towards the knight.

Announcing something in that strange tongue, the knight turned to point at one of the five. Flourishing his sword in a gesture that conveyed pure contempt, he lunged. The security guard dipped back, feinting and dropping his rifle between his chest and the sword.

Snickt!

The knight’s lunge had been executed too quickly and too well. His blade sliced through the gun and into the guard’s stomach. Again, viscera coated the floor.

Part of me rebelled against what I was seeing, yet that unfamiliar coolness continued to pulse through my head, granting clarity. He’s making the security guys suffer, I realized, seeing a pattern in the knight’s attacks.

As if to confirm my observations, the knight twisted and darted to one side, a horizontal slash of his sword repeating the process.

I heard a click of sound as one of the survivors backed into a corner, speaking rapidly into a shoulder-mounted walkie-talkie. “We have a System Invader. Repeat, we have a System Invader. Contact is confirmed.”

Static answered, followed by a muffled, “Intercept is already on the way. ETA three minutes.”

In the time they’d made the exchange, the knight had continued his casual butchery. Everyone other than Julio and the final speaker was down. They weren’t dead, at least I didn’t think they were.

The knight made a complicated gesture. Again, a wave of cool clarity washed over me. He spoke again, this time in broken, but comprehensible English.

“You there. Know me. Know System titles. Good. Make this easier. Where do you have Uglash and other? Tell me, and I shall make less suffering.”

“Screw you,” the security guard said, dropping his rifle and pawing at his hip for a long dagger. He drove forward, dodging around one of the now-predictable horizontal slices to wedge the tip of his blade against the other man’s wrist.

Pting!

The tip of the dagger went flying. Thanks to the boosted mental clarity, I thought there might have been a small chip in the bracelet, too.

“Not.” The knight said, whipping his hand around, backhanding the security guy across the face.

CRUNCH!

Two things happened rapidly then. First, the guard’s body, minus most of his head, struck the far wall. Second, Julio took his turn.

Moving faster than I would have expected, had I not seen the change in his demeanor earlier, Julip wrapped an arm around the knight’s. Applying leverage as much as force, he put the guy into an arm lock as he drove his diving dagger against the purple wristband.

Pting! Chink!

Another chunk fell off the wristband as the tip of the second dagger broke.

The knight flexed, trying to simply dislodge the other man, but biomechanics got in the way. Julio had the guy in a full-leverage arm lock, so simply wiggling out of it wasn’t going to be easy. With a shrug, the knight instead drove his free hand against his opponent’s temple.

Julio spasmed, blood erupting from his ears.

Up until now, I’d been terrified, frozen by events that I couldn’t possibly comprehend. Seeing Julio beaten, coupled with the casual torture of so many others, tipped something over inside of me.

With the sensation of a light switch being flipped, hate replaced fear.

Pushing to my feet, I charged across the small room, shoving both Julio and the knight backwards with the force of my momentum. The monstrous dragon, having been content to watch up until that point, adjusted its footing, sliding further into the room and twisting slightly. The sharpened claws flashed as all three of us slammed into the wall.

The knight made a sound that might have been laughter. Ignoring me entirely, he dropped his sword, which vanished, and grabbed Julio’s shoulder. There was an awful sound, followed by Julio’s scream of pain.

I don’t know how he managed, but Julio held on stubbornly, even as the knight did horrible damage to the man’s body. It didn’t take complex math or a knowledge of anatomy to know if the knight could punch a man’s skull apart, it wouldn’t take much more effort to rip someone’s arms off.

While ignored, I pulled away, looking for another angle of attack. Julio gasped one last time as bone-snapping sounds filled my ears. A mixture of hate and determination helped me focus, as with a jerking motion, the knight pulled Julio free and tossed him away. In doing so, the man’s other hand, the one with the bracelet, became visible.

Seeing one small, thin opportunity, I grabbed the guy’s arm and shoved. It was like pushing an entire car. Uphill. Yet the knight was distracted, and even better, had already shown that his body obeyed basic kinesiology. With my entire force behind it, I managed to force the limb where I wanted it.

The dragon’s gleaming claw sheared through the remainder of the bracelet.

With a flicker of movement so fast I could barely follow it, the knight screamed, “No!” He struck my chest with one forearm, the awkward angle dampening the blow.

I flew back a few feet, striking the wall hard enough to lose my breath, as several important bones in my chest cracked. There should have been pain, but I was too angry to feel it. I pushed off the wall, determined to do something, anything to make this asshole pay.

The dragon’s jaws opened into a toothy grin. Gravity once again asserted itself unnaturally, this time centered on the knight. He fell to the ground, on his back, arms and legs writhing as he tried to stand.

His sword appeared out of nowhere, summoned to a mostly immobile hand. Using only flicking motions of his wrist, he managed to shear through one of the scales on the dragon’s forelimb. It sent a thin stream of orange-hued blood down the monster’s claws.

Something about that bothered me. I couldn’t have said what, or why. There was no context, no reason for anything in my past to explain why my anger got even worse seeing the dragon wounded.

The next thing I knew, I was on top of the knight’s arm. With my legs wrapped around the limb, I yanked and pulled. The gravity effect, still holding him down, didn’t seem to affect me at all.

Out of my peripheral vision, I saw the dragon sink a clawed nail through the man’s armor. It wasn’t deep, just enough to penetrate and maybe clip something inside that was important. The pain was enough to distract the guy.

With a ripping, snapping motion, I peeled the hilt of the sword from the man’s grasp. Twisting, I drove the thing into the killer knight. The first poke didn’t do much. Nor did the second. On the third, I aligned the tip with the dragon’s wound and shoved hard and deep, gritting my teeth as I exhaled hate into the man’s helmeted face.

It took a while. Far longer than it should. Maybe thirty seconds into it, the dragon adjusted its paw, applying pressure to the base of the sword, which I still grasped.

Scchhunk.

The weapon pierced completely through, and the knight went still.

Something struck me then, slamming into my chest and head. Words appeared in the corner of my vision. At first, I didn’t understand them, then they seemed to scramble, pulsing a few times until they came into focus.

System Conquest Awarded: You have defeated an [Overwhelming] opponent more than [fifty] levels above your own.

Error – System Not Installed: Administrators have yet to install the System on your planet. All titles, rewards, and loot generated by your success are on hold.

Notice of Transmission: Details of this event will be transmitted to the nearest Administrator in…

Error: Transmission has been blocked. Re-sync will be attempted during the next System Event.

Interlude: System Directive

Expansion Monitor Zatuula, status report.

The command appeared in Zatuula’s field of vision, floating in bold letters and demanding her attention. If she didn’t respond in a timely manner, the System would get cranky.

And no one liked a cranky System.

Standing from her personal terminal, a construct made of purple and pink-veined magic, she disengaged the relaxation enchantments and came to full wakefulness. Tugging up her sleeve, she exposed her System Augmentation bracelet.

A rectangle of text floated above the mana-dense crystalline hoop, displaying her status.

Name: Zatuula Embrinddaughter

Species: Talah (Standard Biped)

Class: Expansion Monitor

Level: 75

Administrative Credits Available: 91

System Assignment Classification: Standard-Administrative

Current Quests: Oversee the expansion of quadrant 173-BZ (current progress: 37%)

Current Assignment: Provide a status report

With a put-upon sigh, Zatuula stepped from the privacy barrier of her berth and into the adjacent maintenance corridor. A tunnel of transparent blue light shone from one direction to the other, the wall transparency allowing her to see distant twists and turns, where one tunnel merged with others. Floating in the starry blackness of space, System Maintenance spanned thousands of miles. Even at her level, she could only see for maybe two or three hundred miles in any direction.

Distant shapes, mostly bipeds such as herself, were visible. The majority were at their stations, although some rushed about, keeping busy with whatever System-assigned tasks they’d been given.

Expansion Monitor Zatuula, status report.

The words flashed, floating closer to the center of her view. “Ugh. Fine. It’s coming,” she muttered, crossing the hall. Her station was across from her personal quarters, tucked into a seven-foot diameter bubble of orange-tinted glass.

In the center, floating in a sphere of magic, was a representation of the Expansion. At first glance, it looked simple: just another spheroid representation of a universe or star system.

To Zatuula, it was anything but.

With a mental command and some mana, she activated one of her class abilities.

Expansion Analysis kicked in, appearing as a tube of wispy, gossamer light stretching from her head to the display. At the moment of connection, she focused entirely on her zone. The map changed as trillions of stars in billions of inhabited worlds flowed by in an instant. She was left with four clusters.

As her targets came into view, her analytical spell provided additional information, the text appearing next to the display.

Aoma: Magical Saturation (80%); Local Technology (10%); Estimated time to compliance (3 months)