TITLE: Father of Constructs Book 1
AUTHOR: Aaron Renfroe
SERIES: Father of Constructs (Book 1)
WORDS EXTRACTED: 6018
============================================================

Father of Constructs, Book 1 (The Janitor Defeated the World Boss)

Marketing Tag: The World Boss is dead, and the past awakens. After 500 years of apocalyptic desolation, is the world prepared for the return of magic?

Summary: The magical world of Lorith is dying. Centuries ago, heroic adventurers stopped the World Boss’ cycle of rebirth. They reduced the monster to 1 hit point and sealed it away, hiding it so that it would never be unleashed again. In doing so, they unwittingly stopped the flow of magic and unleashed the Havoc Plague. Now, with everything on the brink, humanity has become desperate. Not only that, everyone knows whoever finds and finally kills the boss will receive the full experience reward for its defeat. Tens of thousands of survivors scour the world for hints of the Boss, desperate to claim the prize and free the world. Our unlikely hero is a simple man. Isolated and ignored by the dying remnants of his simple town, he didn’t intend to kill the World Boss. But he did. Burdened with a million experience points, he must find his path - all while navigating rivals who want to take his experience points, and unlikely allies who want to help him do the unthinkable: find the World Boss’s next reincarnation and defeat it before it can ravage the world anew.

(This book) is the first in a series set in a post-apocalyptic fantasy world with Steampunk-type elements.

Dedication

To Christin, who helps me be the best version of myself, and to Alora, whose light is my hope for the future.

Introduction

Welcome to the wonderful world of The Father of Constructs, a LitRPG series. This series will use elements from RPG games, including character sheets, attribute scores, abilities, and skills. We begin with the main character’s starting sheet, and will update it wherever relevant throughout the book, with the goal to keep reiterating stats to a minimum. We will also include character sheets for those who joins the protagonist’s party, as well as some special enemies in the Librium Esoterica.

For common terms used in this series, please see the Glossary.

Prelude: To End Tyranny

Time Until Resurrection: 1 Hour

The Resurrection Nexus hovered in the air, pulling esoterica to it in waves so thick that the magic became visible. Gold and silver lightning shone out of the otherwise clear sky, pulled inward, to where the World Boss would spawn.

A mile below the vortex, a double slash of silver pulsed with light the instant before the train pulled to a halt. Titanium inscriptions lining the top of the locomotive glowed to life as Winston Havoc, dressed in an immaculate suit, opened a door, and tipped his head back to study the magic. The man’s black-red hair whipped across his chiseled cheekbones and generous mouth, briefly concealing a look of concern.

“One hour! Incoming surge!” he called back into the cab.

Gold, blue, and red motes of magic, like fireflies, twinkled as they rose through the ground and into the air, joining the vortex.

Winston’s eyes fluoresced bright red as the magic in his body surged, pushing him well past the limits of a normal fortieth-level adventurer. Resisting the whirlpool tug of the Nexus, he shoved back into the train. Passing through the locomotive compartment, he entered the second car.

Projected light flowed along one wall as the Librium Esoterica updated. A list of available classes, skills, quests, powers, and recently activated monsters appeared in the center of the projection. The word “World Boss” appeared in that list, the text oversized and gray. The entries to the left and right of the main list were grayed out, inaccessible this close to the resurrection.

Daniel Colin, looking less like an adventurer and more like a lumberjack, stood behind a polished table, the edges capped in rounded brass. Parchment fluttered on the table, elaborate diagrams curling and uncurling as ambient magic altered local gravity. Pushing one thick-fingered hand down to the paper, he activated one of his abilities. His display, a rectangle of semi-transparent orange air, flared and his arms glowed a moment before the diagrams transposed themselves to his flesh.

“I’ll never get tired of that,” Winston said, flashing his friend a smile. “To think, I once believed that Tattooed Titan was the stupidest name for an epic class I’d ever heard.”

“We’ve heard of far stupider,” Susanna Crow said. “Is the transformation inscription ready?” Sitting at the far end of the cab, Susanna wore a functional leather vest and button-up cream shirt, with denim pants and laced boots. Her black-veined sword lay across her lap, the tip brushing the inside of her forearm. A thin trickle of blood passed from her to the blade, priming its abilities.

“Yeah. Assuming we can get the World Boss to precisely one hit point, it’s ready.” Winston looked out the window at the increasingly chaotic display beyond the train’s protective walls. The ley lines deep beneath the ground had swollen to bursting, disgorging enough esoterica to double the effectiveness of any spell they cast.

Tugging her sword from her arm, Susanna tapped one of her rings. The wound closed, leaving flawless flesh that rapidly regained its warm hue. “That’s seventy-seven times. It will be enough.” Her sword hummed agreement, something it had never done before.

Daniel looked over at the sword with a troubled expression. “I swear, it feels like it’s looking at me now.” Cutting his eyes to the Librium, he scanned for the Blade of Silence entry and found the relevant ability.

Ultimate Harvest: Once per month, when the Blade of Silence damages an enemy, there is a chance it will reduce the opponent to one hit point. This chance is small, but the wielder may increase it by draining all but one of her hit points into the weapon. This benefit can stack over time, to a maximum of seventy-seven percent. This legendary-tier effect is protected. A creature so injured may not regenerate or heal from the effect for 5 minutes.

“Enough esoterica and anything will feel like it’s coming to life,” Winston said, crossing the cab to scan the horizon. Their allies were out there, stopping anyone from interfering. He couldn’t see or hear anything, not with the Nexus so close to spawning the World Boss, but he knew what must be happening. Hundreds of people would be closing in on the location, each looking to tag the World Boss. Once it died, they’d get a slice of the experience and, perhaps, a special power. Their allies were there to prevent anyone from interfering.

All they needed was one thing to go wrong and ruin everything.

“We should go,” Daniel said, standing. He walked to one side of the cab to collect his backpack. Magic armor misted out of the air, encasing his muscular body as he did. An array of weapons, none less than epic-quality, likewise appeared at his waist, thighs, back, and shoulders.

Winston and Susanna followed their companion, finalizing their preparations and exiting the train.

Wind and esoterica flooded the air as they stepped onto the train tracks. Beside the tracks, just fifty feet away, was a steep cavern, the entry covered with inscriptions. Glowing blue light shone from those inscriptions, revealing another set of tracks leading into the infinite darkness beyond. At a gesture from Winston, a second train slid forward on the rails, coming to a stop at the very edge of the cave’s entrance. The new one had just five cars.

“I still don’t know how I feel about using the Deep Tracks to keep the Boss secure,” Susanna said, looking over at the cave.

Looking up, Winston narrowed his eyes. It was nearly time. The firefly lights had begun to define the edges of a truly massive shape. This version of the World Boss, when it finally appeared, would be half a mile tall. He just hoped Susanna was right about her sword’s capabilities, and that the newly revived World Boss would be too weak to resist its special ability.

“We’ve planned this to death,” Winston said, waving to the inscription decorating their train. “We can’t afford to hesitate. All it needs is a few seconds to orient and the opportunity will be gone. Thousands of people gave their lives to give us this chance, not to mention the ones holding back adventurers right now. At one hit point, it loses all its powers and becomes vulnerable. We’ll transform the body and seal it away, so the World Boss never dies, never gathers more power, and never regenerates. We’ll be free of its tyranny for the first time in our lives. Everyone will be.”

Sheets of lightning fell like rain, suffusing the air with the unmistakable static tension of a monster birth. Thunderous music, filled with ominous chanting, rose over the tempest.

“Inscriptions aren’t permanent, though,” Daniel said. “You said it yourself. Over time, the binding will weaken. The World Boss will begin to exert its will. If it somehow gains even one experience point, it will free itself.” Smashing his fists together, the Tattooed Titan’s shape stretched. He grew, doubling and redoubling in size until he towered protectively over his companions.

Winston watched his friends prepare themselves. One hand on his grimoire, storing his memories of these moments, he said, “That won’t happen. And if it does, our descendants will do the right thing and seal it again.”

Roaaaaaar!

Time stopped. The Regeneration Vortex stilled. One moment, there was a group of adventurers, casually talking about a plan decades in the making. The next, they were fighting the World Boss.

Librium Esoterica Entry

Name: Harvey Laetus

Age: 63

Class: None

Experience: 0

Pillar Attributes: Physical (6), Mental (4), Spiritual (10)

Skills

Cleaning and Maintenance: Poor (Unleveled)

Survival: Poor (Unleveled)

Inherited Template: Havoc Plagued

Template Description: You have been tainted by recycled magic. This has dramatically decreased your mental and physical capacity. You cannot use magic, and your tainted bodily fluids will disrupt any magic they touch until you reach level one. Upon reaching level one, your body will naturally purge the plague. This will not restore lost vitality or intellect, although you may spend experience upon acquiring a class to improve those scores.

Acquired Template: Aged

Template Description: You are old. You heal slower than normal, and all your physical and mental attributes are degraded. Due to your advanced age, you are Vulnerable. Your threshold to sustain critical injuries is four times the norm. You must reach level 5 to overcome this limitation.

Confluence Benefit: Due to a combination of your templates and life experiences, your Spiritual qualities have grown to slightly compensate for your other weaknesses. You have developed an advanced sense of intuition that has granted you the Wind’s Whisper ability.

Template Benefit–Wind’s Whisper (Intuition): In times of extreme danger or opportunity, the wind may “speak” to you and lead you to a desired outcome. This effect may happen only twice per twenty-four hours. Limitation: Opponents with an ability that falls in the “Intuition” category may cancel this power out or override it with outcomes preferable to them. Opponents with higher levels may disrupt this ability.

Chapter 1: Harvey Loves Trains

Harvey woke to one of his coughing fits. Disoriented by the ombre shadows of his half-collapsed, makeshift tent, he rolled to his side as the spasms shook his entire body. By the time it was over, his bones ached. The pain in his chest was bad. He couldn’t remember it being so intense before. Then again, he couldn’t remember a time without it.

“Hasn’t killed me so far,” he said optimistically, crawling out from beneath the ancient tarp he called home. The sun’s early rays sent startling spears through his cloudy vision, making him wince and suck in a breath of oppressive, dry heat. h

Stretching his bent back, he waited for his eyes to adjust before looking around. A field of solar panels stretched from his home into the distance, many of them covered in a patina of rust-colored dust. In the center of the panels, fluting outward like some giant mushroom, was the Light Collector. Recycled magic was getting more expensive, so the Collectors were the last, grim hope for his hometown.

Brow furrowing, Harvey tried to count how many of the panels needed his attention right away. At eight, he frowned, looked down at his fingers, and began again. He’d never been good at counting, or spelling for that matter, and neither had improved in his old age.

Tugging on his dusty, worn-out poncho and slouchy sombrero, followed by his often-torn pants, he walked around the tarp to his work equipment. The townsfolk helped him maintain the tools, for which he was grateful. It wasn’t much, just a collection of janitorial supplies. There were brushes, slop buckets, a cart for wheeling trash in and out of the town, and a few other odds and ends. One small, covered container even had some basic albeit rusty tools for when he tried to repair things.

As he made his way out to the glassy field, he fought back more coughs. Thirst gripped his throat, squeezing it like a vice. When was the last time he’d had a full ration of water? He couldn’t remember. Looking from the panels, he let his gaze linger briefly on the train station. It wasn’t far from his place, barely a quarter of a mile, and on the way to town. Rolling his tongue across the stumps of his few remaining teeth, he thought as hard as he could. According to the laws, everyone got a water ration every day, as long as they did their civic duty. He’d never failed to do that. Not once.

“Good men do good work,” he recited through parched lips.

Wind blew, tugging at the edge of his slouchy hat and fluttering the loose tips of what remained of his long, bleach-white hair. Despite contracting the Havoc Plague shortly after being born, Harvey was a tall man, a few inches over six feet. Tanned skin stretched taut over a lean, hard body that had spent nearly every day of his life engaged in physical labor.

The shakes had him. Standing there, getting his bearings, he couldn’t keep his hands still. Looking over towards Sumdul, he saw the cloudy outlines of aged wooden buildings and considered his options. It was early yet, the full heat of the day far from kicking in. It must have been a day, if not two since he’d had his full ration of water. Maybe he deserved one today, before the work began, just this once. Hopefully Mr. Noritch would be manning the pump if he got there quickly.

Some of the other pumpers didn’t take kindly to Harvey.

“Good men, good work,” he chanted again, pushing through his reluctance, and gripping two of the cleaning brushes. Short-gripped, with wide, soft-bristled heads, the brushes showed nearly as much age as he did. Both had gaps in their bristles, and he’d been forced to repair the handles with twine and cloth until gripping them hurt his arthritic fingers. He didn’t mind the pain. Making things right, making them work, brought him as much joy as he’d ever known.

An hour later, with the worst dust cleared away, he put the brushes back in their buckets and began his trek toward Sumdul. Walking barefoot on feet as hard and scarred as rocks, he looked at the train station as he went. Harvey loved trains. Everything about them fascinated him.

The station was a magnificent thing, an enormous rectangle of metal and stone, all topped by a double row of solar panels. He didn’t maintain those panels. The locals didn’t trust him for that job, not since his last fall had left him bedridden for a week. Glistening, magnificent train tracks led beside the station and past, along the North-South line. Next to the station, in a separate warehouse, was where the engineers worked. As he walked past, he thought he heard those strange, smart men toiling away.

If there was anything Harvey’s heart dreamed of, it was to work on the train. Twisting to keep the station in view as he walked, he froze at the gleam of distant motion. Mouth opening wide in an expectant smile, he exclaimed, “Oh! Oh!”

Beeeeeep Beeeeep! HOOOONK!

The sound of the train accompanied his excited cries. Clapping his callous-hardened hands together in glee, he bounced in place. Trains were fascinating in all the best ways. Gliding from the distance, this one looked like something out of a story, like a giant horned worm made of blackened metal. Orange smoke rose from those horns, the exhaust of burning recycled magic. The sight of the fumes made his stomach twist.

A wave of unease washing through him, he continued his journey. The train still had minutes before it would arrive, which meant he had plenty of time to cross the tracks, even if it kept going to the next stop.

“Trains don’t hurt no one,” he mumbled to himself, still smiling, as he made the last two hundred yards to Sumdul at a half-trot.

“Harvey! Harvey!”

Pausing just outside of town, Harvey hesitated. There, not over ten or fifteen yards away, was the well and pump. Mr. Noritch, looking smart in his three-piece black suit, smiled and waved him over.

His hesitation cost him.

Jake Esteep, the youngest of the Esteep brood, rushed over. The young man was barely twelve, and just as tanned and lean as everyone else in the town. His clothes were nice, with pearly buttons down the chest, and a neat black belt with a silver buckle on his trim blue pants. Short for his age, barely four and a half feet tall, he looked up at Harvey with twinkling blue eyes and a smile that showed all his even teeth.

“Harvey, I was wondering if I could have half your water ration today?” the youth asked, giving him a pleading look.

Frowning, Harvey thought back, trying to remember how many times he’d given Jake half his water ration. It had to have been at least once, if not twice. Maybe more.

“Jake, are you trying to take Harvey’s ration again?” Mr. Noritch called as he walked over. The old black man was nearly Harvey’s age. His clear, steady hazel eyes and straight back belonged to someone who’d never caught the plague.

“I don’t mind-” Harvey began, much to Jake’s evident delight.

“I do,” Mr. Noritch interrupted, coming to a stop nearby. Reaching into a pocket, he drew out a small pad of paper. Licking a finger, he flicked from one page to another, reading out loud. “First day of the new month. Harvey Laetus, half rations. Donated to Jake Esteep. Second day of the new month. Harvey Laetus, half rations. Donated to Jake Esteep. Third day of the new month. Harvey Laetus, half rations. Donated to Jake Esteep.” He stopped, looking directly at Jake. “It keeps going like that for a while. You’ve been taking half of Harvey’s ration for nearly two months, young man. I can’t let that continue.”

Harvey’s mouth worked, sounding out the word “month,” as if the meaning escaped him.

Squirming in place, Jake whined, “But it’s not like he needs it, Mr. Noritch! I mean, look at him. Everyone knows he’s not worth it. Besides, he’s got the rattling cough.”

“Do I need to remind you what the world was like before the World Boss was sealed away, Jake?” Mr. Noritch said.

“No.” Jake hesitated a beat, then said, “I mean, no, sir.”

“People were selfish back then, Jake.” Tucking his notepad away, Mr. Noritch waved for both Jake and Harvey to walk with him back to the well. He continued talking, expecting obedience. “Sure, it was a different world. There was plenty of magic to go around and all that.”

The well was ten feet in diameter, and hip-high, with a complex pumping mechanism attached to one side. Multiple barrels attached to ropes along a crossbeam above the top. Cunningly crafted mechanisms, with levers and chains and all sorts of interesting bits, made getting water for the town simple. Harvey found the pump mechanism nearly as fascinating as the trains.

At the pump, Mr. Noritch got his notepad back out, along with a stub of pencil. Making a mark, he murmured, “Harvey Laetus, full ration.” He gave Jake a glare, practically daring the young man to interrupt, before turning to work the complex metal pump.

Fascinated by the workings of the device, as well as Mr. Noritch’s narration, Harvey said, “More story, please, sir.” The second thing he loved was a good story. Why, he’d already forgotten how thirsty he was, just listening so far.

“Along with the magic, was the greed, Jake. Men in positions of power. Men killing men for power.”

“Just men?” Harvey asked, confused. “What about the women?”

Jake snickered. “You’ve got to have heard this story at least as often as I have.”

Ignoring Jake, Mr. Noritch gave Harvey an encouraging nod. “Yes, Harvey. Good. Ask questions. It’ll keep your mind going. Women had power and killed one another, too. Men and women. Both were greedy and prone to selfishness. It led to all sorts of awful things.”

Something tickled at the back of Harvey’s mind. “Like war?” he said hesitantly.

“That’s right.” Twisting a locking mechanism to keep the pump from moving, Mr. Noritch drew on a pulley to wheel a barrel full of water over to them. Lifting the barrel from its hook, he waved at Jake. “Go get us some cups. And if you promise to do something nice for Mr. Laetus here, I may even give you half a ration as a bonus for being a good boy.”

At the opportunity to claim an extra ration, Jake raced away.

“I forgot my cup,” Harvey said, looking down at his empty hands with a frown. Why had he forgotten his cup? He couldn’t remember the last time he’d seen it.

“That’s okay.” Mr. Noritch reached over and squeezed his shoulder.

“More story, please?”

“Sure, but shouldn’t we wait until Jake is back?”

“Oh, yes.” Harvey bobbed his head enthusiastically. “Sharing is good. I am a good man.” It was important to be good, no matter what.

“Yes, you are.”

For some reason, when Mr. Noritch said the words, Harvey thought something like sadness crept into the other man’s tone. He couldn’t imagine why, though. Mr. Noritch was Sumdul’s resident scholar. He knew everything. No one who knew so much could be sad, could they?

Jake came racing back, two smooth, rounded cups in hand. Full, each would hold about a quarter of a day’s ration for someone who wasn’t doing hard labor. Using a metal ladle attached to the bucket, Mr. Noritch filled and refilled Harvey’s cup six times before filling the boy’s cup once.

“The story?” Harvey prompted. The water felt good down his throat. It eased the worst of the pain and made him feel less like coughing. His guts weren’t clenching nearly as hard. But water wasn’t a story.

“Where was I?” Mr. Noritch asked.

Harvey looked at Jake, confused.

Rolling his eyes, Jake took a sip from his water. “Wars, right?”

“Ah yes. Wars.” Mr. Noritch settled back without refilling the young man’s cup. “Wars were common back then, with people killing each other for power. Nations clashed, all while elite monsters, regional dominators, and the World Boss hurt more people with every cycle. Only when we came together, united in a common cause, did the heroes of old manage to seal the Boss away, ending the cycle of violence.”

“And now people are all good,” Harvey said brightly.

Jake gave Harvey a scornful look. “He’s glossing this over for you, idiot. He didn’t mention the Havoc Plague, or how all the magic has drained away. The world is dying. Who cares if people are good or bad if there’s nothing worth living for?”

“Jake,” Mr. Noritch said sharply. “Take that pessimism with you back to your father’s. I am certain he’ll need help, given the fact that we seem to have our first guest in months.”

“Wait, what?” Whipping his head around, the boy exclaimed in surprised pleasure at the sight of a distant person disembarking the train. The newcomer was too far away for Harvey to make out details, but he thought the man was wearing a high-collared dust cloak.

“That looks like an adventurer!” Jake turned to rush away, but Mr. Noritch stopped him with a hand on the young man’s shoulder.

“Jake, you owe Mr. Laetus something to balance all the water you’ve taken from him.” The aged scholar’s voice was harder than Harvey had ever heard it.

“What should I give him?” Jake asked sourly.

Mr. Noritch didn’t reply, just locked eyes with the young man.

Finally, with a sighing huff, the boy addressed Harvey. “Look, you like trains, right? I know dad has had to ask you to leave the station a few times. I bet you didn’t know there’s an old train, like from the old world, just north of the town, not too far from the dumps. A few weeks ago, one of our foragers discovered it in a collapsed tunnel. Head far enough that way and you’ll find it.” He waved in a direction. “Have fun exploring.”

“Jake,” Mr. Noritch said, a note of disapproval in his voice.

“A new train!” Forgetting stories of World Bosses, the old world, or even guests in the town, Harvey jumped up and down, sending a few splashes of water flying across his thin arms. “Jake, thank you, thank you so much!”

Grinning like a feral cat, Jake yanked his arm from Mr. Noritch’s grasp and sprinted away, back toward the train station.

Sighing, Mr. Noritch said, “Harvey, you can’t go there. You’re too old, and anything from the old times is dangerous. There could be lingering magic back there. Without a harvesting team, you’re likely to get yourself in trouble if you find anything.”

One of the few stories Harvey remembered was about the origins of the Havoc Plague. People said it was the price of keeping the world going, and making machines work. The plague affected everyone differently. Harvey’s parents had told him that the plague had made him who he was.

“Old magic made me special, Mr. Noritch,” Harvey said, giving his friend a gap-toothed smile. “It can’t hurt me.”

Shaking his head, Mr. Noritch seemed about to say something more, but hesitated. “Harvey, you’re a good person,” he said at last. “You might be coming near the end of your days. That doesn’t mean you need to rush it. The world needs more people like you.”

Harvey knew that tone. His father had used it with him many times. Looking down, he whispered, “You’re not gonna let me go, are you, Mr. Noritch?”

“I’m not going to stop you. It’s not my place.”

Looking up, Harvey gave his frowning, sad friend a beaming grin. On impulse, he wrapped his arms around Mr. Noritch, squeezing him tight against his hard-boned frame. “You’re the best Mr. Noritch!”

Mr. Noritch watched Harvey walk away. A few feet away, the old man froze, the spasms and coughing nearly sending him to his knees. The coughs were wet and ragged, as if something were tearing in Harvey’s chest. Everyone knew what that meant. Wincing, the scholar whispered to no one, “No, no, I’m not.”

Turning to the city, he went to tell the townsfolk the news of the outsider.

Chapter 2: Talkin’ To Me

The whisper told Harvey he was on the right track. It came and went, his special whisper. His mother told him it was a “Havoc Blessing,” the thing that made him special. Passing through the dry, scrub-brushed landscape north of Sumdul, he found himself at the sloping entry of shattered canyons.

His blessing urged him on.

Trudging forward, stepping around sharp shards of broken rock and unforgiving spiked thornbushes, he took his time. Even he knew that the north canyons were home to mysterious, dangerous things. Plus, the steep angle down into the winding basin was hard on his aching knees and back.

The canyons stretched for miles, and were flanked by an ancient, paved road that everyone knew to avoid. Hints of wildlife appeared, as what little free water remained trickled out from the depths and lured them in. There were no monsters there, of course. With the sealing of the World Boss, all the local monsters had long since been harvested.

As far as he was concerned, there was nothing to be worried about, aside from another fall. Even then, as long as he took his time, he knew he’d be safe.

“Train?” Harvey called upon reaching the bottom of the canyon. His voice echoed as he made his way forward, looking for signs of the cave-in Jake had mentioned.

Harvey marveled at the beauty of the environment. Towering cliffs, each with strata of a thousand colors, soared on either side. The tough, thorny scrub that clung to the parched, cracked rock had tiny pink blossoms. Pausing when he neared the foliage, he reached out to touch the petals.

“Mom loved pink,” he said. “Look mom, I found you some pink flowers.” A spark of ancient, fading memory made him smile. Most days, he couldn’t remember his mother’s face, but her voice was always clear in his head.

Oh Harvey, I love them, she’d say. Even when she’d gotten too bent and weak to hold them, she’d always said that whenever he brought her a gift.

Harrrrveeeyyyyy. A gust of wind whipped from ahead, the sound of its passage like an eerie voice. Jerking his hand back, Harvey didn’t notice the long, bleeding scratches the bush left along his fingertips.

“Hello? Is someone there?” Harvey called. He knew better than to think anyone was in the canyon with him. Still, deep down, his guts twisted. What if ghosts were real? Hadn’t Mr. Noritch said they had been, back before the world moved on?

Harrrrrveeyyyyy! Here! I have something for you! This time, the whispering, windy voice was unmistakable. It didn’t sound like his whispers. This was different.

Shaking in a mixture of terror and fascination, he stepped forward, following the voice. It took him the better part of the morning, winding from one trail to another, but eventually he made it to the source.

Piles of rock had fallen from a ledge high above, punching through the ground and forming a steep avalanche into a tunnel below the deepest point of the canyon. Shafts of dusty light speared down the ten-foot-wide hole, revealing the barest gleam of red metal. Leaning closer, dislodging loose rocks as he did, he saw that the metal curved in a decidedly train-like shape back into the depths.

“Long drop,” Harvey said, voice echoing once in the canyons and again in the deep tunnel. It sounded like there were two different versions of him, each with a different pitch. The thought of it made him smile. Ever since his folks had passed and the rest of his family had moved along, he’d been alone.

Harvey! The voice came again, clear as day, from the train. Come here. You won’t ever be alone again. I promise.

A bright, beatific smile curled the edges of the old man’s mouth. Whoever was down there seemed to know him. That had to mean it was okay.

His chest squeezed again, clamping down on another of his coughs. The blood came this time, just enough to speckle the rocks at his feet. Weakness followed, taking his legs out from under him. He fell hard, jerking, eyes fluttering.

Harvey! Hurry! It’s not much further. Not much longer. Come! Come!

Sunlight from directly above speared into his mind, magnifying a growing headache. Wincing and moaning in pain, the old man tried to get to his feet. There was more blood on the sharp rocks, enough that he felt a pang of regret at the lost water.

“I’m sorry, Mr. Noritch,” he mumbled, tonguing a tooth that had come loose during the fall. After this, he’d be down to less than he could count on two hands. That didn’t matter much, considering how painful the remainders had become. Soup had been all he’d eaten for as long as he could remember.

Harvey loved soup. His stomach growled at the thought of it.

Limbs shaking, he found his footing and began gingerly spider-climbing down the rockslide. Cold air greeted him as he descended into the oppressive dark of the cave. When his feet came down on a metal rail, a gentle violet light bloomed in the ceiling, revealing what he’d found.

“Oh! Oh!” Harvey exclaimed through split lips and bleeding gums, excited at the discovery.

He was in a tunnel that went on forever. As far as he could see, it just went on and on, straight as an arrow. Thirty or forty feet wide and just as tall, with a curved roof, every inch of the space was covered in strange symbols. And in the middle of the tunnel, the front car crushed in by falling stone, was the train.

It was fascinating. Unlike the one Jake’s father oversaw, this one was barely four cars long and simply crafted. Faded, glowing symbols wrapped around all four cars, the glint of chipped bits of gold wire running through it all. The sight of a spell working without the orange hue of recycled magic made him grin with excitement.

Harveeeeyyy. The voice came from up front, hissing through where rocks had cracked the glass of the conductor’s car.

Seeing no other points of interest, Harvey continued his exploration. Stepping onto the train’s side rails, he didn’t notice the blood leaking from his rock-shredded hands onto the flickering, angry-looking runes beneath his feet. Nor did he notice that wherever his plague-ridden blood touched, the light went out.

“I’m coming,” he mumbled past thick lips.

Getting onto the train through the cracked window wasn’t easy. The glass wasn’t anything like what they made in modern times. This was thick, hard stuff that barely budged when he hit it with a rock. Eventually, after another hard coughing fit and an hour of work, he managed to shift enough debris and bang enough of the glass out of the way to get inside.

Tap tap tap. The sounds of his weakly flowing blood spattering the floor were all he heard in the darkened interior.

The conductor’s cab was disappointingly bland. Either the controls were absent, or they’d been covered by rocks. Nothing in the smooth, rounded room indicated anything of promise. Not that Harvey wanted relics or treasures.

“Here!” The voice called from behind the door leading out of the conductor’s room. Strangely, a rattling sound came from the door. The dust didn’t move, though, which led him to believe he must have been hearing things. That happened, sometimes.

Harvey reached out and gripped the handle. Unnoticed runes flared and went dark in his bloody grip, and he slid the door aside. It rolled easily, the ancient tracks intact despite however long it had been buried. He found himself in a tiny, narrow hallway. To his left was another door, faintly glowing with a strange script. A spot of rust, looking a bit like it had grown into place, coated the handle of the door. To his right was a narrow, bending hallway.

“To the right, Harvey,” the voice called, sounding like it came from everywhere all at once. “Go there and I shall reward you. You will have power. Treasures. Glory. Whatever you want, you shall claim, I promise!”

“Huh?” Harvey frowned. “Mr. Voice, I don’t want any of that, thank you very much.”

“Harvey! Whatever you want! It’s yours for the taking! Just go where I tell you!”

The voice sounded upset. More importantly, it reminded him of someone. Someone who hadn’t been nice to him. It sounded like the voice of someone cruel. Harvey didn’t like cruelty.