TITLE: Master of Steel (Father of Constructs Book 2)
AUTHOR: Aaron Renfroe
SERIES: Father of Constructs (Book 2)
WORDS EXTRACTED: 6005
============================================================

Master of Steel

A Father of Constructs LitRPG Story

Marketing Tag:

Summary: The World Boss is dead, and magic has returned, bringing with it unparalleled opportunities for the people of Lorith. In Book 2 of Father of Constructs, Harvey, Tabitha, Maywen, and Reacher must work together to deal with threats from the ancient past and new opportunities to rejuvenate their once-dying world. As Harvey rapidly nears his fifth level, and the rejuvenation it promises, who will he become?

Master of Steel is the second in a series set in a post-apocalyptic dungeonpunk world.

Dedication

To John; my friend and inspiration for Harvey. Back in the day, when I was trying to get my own RPG company off the ground, he was the one who helped me build and test various products. A mad-scientist, inventor, fix-it-all, and unassailably beautiful, generous soul–he is, and always will be–the soul of Harvey.

Introduction

Welcome to the wonderful world of The Father of Constructs, a LitRPG series. This series will use elements from RPG games, including character sheets, attribute scores, abilities, and skills. To keep reiteration to a minimum, we will only reveal this game information when it’s relevant to the story or when the character’s information needs an update. You’ll also find Librium Esoterica entries spaced throughout the books. These will provide insight into enemies and side characters. We’ve expanded these entries to include contextual clues and details about the characters themselves. For those of you interested in Easter Eggs, or just uncovering more juicy foreshadowing and plot, these entries are for you.

For common terms used in this series, please see the Glossary.

Prelude: Spy Mistress

Shuju accepted the wrapped packet of envelopes from her assistant with a subtle nod of approval. The young man, Pact Bound into her service, gave a nervous bow as he backed out of the room and left her alone.

The space was small, barely more than a closet, yet it held a desk with all the utensils she’d need for her craft. Paper, quills, bottles with a variety of inks in a dozen shades were neatly laid out to one side. Along the other were the seals of a dozen officials, including a few who considered themselves kings.

Taking a seat on her hard upholstered chair, she untied the package and reviewed each note.

“Update?” The whispered man’s voice came from within a fold of her elaborate, silken kimono.

“A thousand hunters have gone looking. It seems only one group has any significant chance of finding them once they arrive at Crystal Bay. Even then, they are slow going.”

“Master Singh would like a risk assessment. Should we send intervention?”

Pursing her lips, Shuju considered the parchment detailing the person in question. “I would say the risk is low. Crystal Bay is peaceful. Their local constabulary is effective, and their ruler is a trusted ally. Assuming Harvey and Tabitha don’t act foolishly, they should be safe.”

“Excellent. Master Singh accepts your assessment. You are to continue working on the Inheritor project. Esteep and his friends need to be brought around, one way or the other.”

Suppressing a sigh of disapproval at the reminder, Shuju forced her voice into gentle subservience. “Of course. My will is his.”

Chapter 1: Harvey Loves Eggs

Harvey woke to the squealing, high-pitched sound of metal against metal. Sitting up too fast, he slammed his forehead into the bunk above his.

“Ouch!” Slapping a hand up to apply pressure to the split in his scalp, he rolled out of bed. One of his satin-covered pillows had fallen in the night, and it slid out from beneath his foot as surely as soap. He fell backwards, splitting the back of his balding, silver-haired pate open on the filigree and gilt safety rail framing the beds.

Falling onto the bottom bunk, the sixty-two-year-old man’s body relaxed, bonelessly oozing to the polished wooden floor. His slide left a rapidly thinning trail of blood in its wake. Moaning, rolling onto his stomach, he waited for a solid count of three before trying to stand.

Click. Slurrp.

Something in his scalp clicked, followed by the hilarious sound of his regeneration kicking in and sucking bits of the blood back into the wound. “That’s the spot,” he said brightly, as he finally found his footing.

The squeal of brakes had stopped, along with the train’s movement. A cultured woman’s voice broadcast through the speaker in the corner of his cabin. “Dear passengers, we’re delighted to inform you we’ve arrived at Sorghum. This will be one of two stops we make on the way to Crystal Bay. Breakfast is being served in the dining car, and you will have approximately eight hours to stretch your legs before we resume our journey. As a quick reminder, always have your train receipt ready. It will grant you access to public facilities and guarantee your safety.”

Running his tongue across his mostly empty gums, Harvey pushed the intercom button.

“Yes, car thirteen?” the woman said from the intercom.

Keeping pressure on the button, he asked, “What’s for breakfast?”

“Let me check the menu. One moment. Ah, yes. We have an assortment of imported, chilled fruit, along with sausage, hash browns, and eggs. The eggs can be served to order, of course.”

“Eggs? I love eggs!” Harvey’s mood immediately lightened. As much as he loved trains, and being on them, he adored food he didn’t have to chew. Hopefully, once he reached level five, that would change. According to Lucas and Mr. Noritch, his first physical transformation would happen at that level. Until he visited three more Oases and claimed those levels, however, he was stuck as he was.

He didn’t mind too much. Harvey’s youth hadn’t lasted long. Thanks to the Havoc Plague, pretty much everything he remembered was from being old.

“We’re glad to hear that, car thirteen. Is there anything else?” The woman sounded warmly amused.

“Would you let Reacher know that I’m going to go see the town soon? Tabitha will probably want to join me.”

“Reacher? Ah. Your construct? Will it understand such a complex message?”

Reacher was an epic-tier construct from an ancient civilization Harvey had discovered with his friend, Lucas. It had been damaged, and befriended Harvey when he’d helped repair it. Over their travels together, he’d learned Reacher had the intelligence of the average preteen. Recently, he and his assistant, Tabitha, completed extensive repairs and upgrades on the ancient creation.

“He’ll understand,” Harvey said. To him, Reacher was as much a person as anyone else.

“Alright, sir. We’ll send word back. Do you have a timeframe?”

“I reckon it’ll take me a few minutes to throw clothes on and gobble some eggs. Say, half an hour? That gives us seven and a half to see the new town, right?”

“Correct.”

“And there isn’t an Oasis here, right?”

“No, sir. The nearest working Oasis is at Crystal Bay, which will take us another five days to reach.”

“Ah, that’s all good, then.” Harvey grinned up at the intercom, as if the woman on the other end could see him. Not that she’d have wanted to see him the way he was dressed now. He’d gotten a pair of well-knitted and incredibly inexpensive long johns prior to leaving Lassos. The bright red, one-piece garment had a buttoning flap for him to do his business, and fit loosely on his tall, spare frame.

“Is that all, sir?”

“Yup. Sounds great, thankee much.” Releasing the intercom button, Harvey ran his hand across his head. There was no sign of the injuries he’d taken waking up. Not even flecks of dried blood remained. He might be delicate, considering his age, but whatever healing gift he’d gotten from the World Boss more than made up for it.

Looking around the private room, he got his bearings. Everything about the train was lavish and well-made. A steady stream of orange light from glass tubes lining the walls revealed a seven-foot-long by six-foot-wide space. Four beds in a typical bunk-style lined the long walls. Beneath the porthole window was a locking chest, with four labeled compartments for personal belongings.

Not that Harvey needed storage.

Extending an arm, he mentally activated his Monroe’s Pocket.

Monroe’s Pocket: Monroe’s pocket is an extra-dimensional space. It will provide you with up to 1-ton of timeless storage per your level in the Esoteric Application skill. At level 12, this will be enhanced to include an inventory management aspect. Limitations: Like all similar spaces, you may not store living organisms. In addition, you may only move the maximum tonnage of your Pocket once per day. This means you can currently store 2-tons or extract 2-tons of material per day, or any variations thereof that add up to the limit. You may not use this ability during combat.

Reaching into the space was a lot like feeling inside a familiar, well-organized cupboard. Finding anything was essentially effortless, though it still took a bit of time.

Changing out of his long johns, he pulled on a pair of brown trousers and a white shirt, with a neat black overcoat that had big, silvered buttons. His hard-toed workman’s boots were beside his bed. Once he had them on, along with a pouch of money tucked into a pocket, he made his way to the dining car.

The hall outside his room was barely wide enough for Harvey to walk straight. Despite being malnourished as a youngster, he was still just over six feet tall and had wide shoulders. Past several closed cabins, he came to the steel and glass double-layered doors leading to the span between cars.

Their current train, unlike the North-South one they’d been on before, had railed platforms between the cars. The rail had flexible chain links, and the platforms were segmented, so sections could float and flex freely as the train moved. It made it much safer for passengers to traverse back and forth between cars.

A gust of hot, acrid air smacked him in the face as he walked across the span and into the next car.

“Why are you smiling like a goofball?” Tabitha said by way of greeting once he made it to the dining car. Sitting at a booth near the middle of the chamber, she was a young woman, maybe seventeen-year-old, with blond hair and fierce blue eyes. Her outfit for the day was like his, with functional pants and a button-up shirt. The only embellishment she allowed was embroidery around the neck, which was a line of thorn-stemmed roses.

Winding down the narrow aisle and past several other passengers, Harvey took a seat across from her. “We’re on a train.”

“We’ve been on a train before,” she pointed out, eyes darting to the group taking a seat at the booth opposite theirs. Three muscular men, each wearing dark, dress-style vests, white shirts, and black pants, sat there. All three had the telltale shimmer of screens hovering next to their faces, and they were covertly glancing in her direction.

Only people with enough experience to qualify for a class had screens. No one else in the dining car had them. It could mean the trio were mercenaries, or assassins, and out for Harvey’s experience points.

Ignoring the other passengers, Harvey waved her dismissal away. “Doesn’t matter. It’s still amazing.”

A hint of a smile creased the young woman’s lips. “Oh, Harvey. Never change.”

“Why would I?” Harvey had a legendary class called Father of Constructs. Gaining the class had purged him of the Havoc Plague. It had also imbued him with special abilities. Some of those abilities included volumes of knowledge. Despite integrating seamlessly into him, nothing he’d gained had altered who he was.

“Oh. You know. People.” Tabitha waved idly at the group sitting next to them. She’d had a hard life, too, and it showed distinctive distrust toward strangers. Her screen hovered like a playing card-sized haze beside her head, indistinct and unreadable to anyone but her. Because of her relationship with Harvey, she’d taken the epic class, Dropship Medic. It fused her love of creation with incredible versatility as a healer.

A bell chimed at the head of the car, as two men wearing white chef’s outfits pushed metal trays into view. One announced, “Breakfast is served. If you have any special dietary requests, please let us know and we’ll have something whipped up for you.”

Harvey’s hand shot into the air.

The younger of the two chefs gave him a tight nod. “Mr. Harvey, we’ve been informed of your predilections. Extra eggs, correct?”

“I love eggs,” Harvey announced.

Several passengers laughed outright at that. One woman wearing a lace bonnet burst out into a fit of giggles. Tabitha turned to glare at the giggler.

“I just want everyone to know that we like eggs and steak.” The announcement came from one man sitting at the table next to theirs. He had a posh, cultured accent, and was ruggedly handsome. Dark, curly hair peeked out from beneath his bowler hat, and a waxed mustache adorned his full upper lip. He was square-jawed, with a fetching chin dimple.

Head whipping around fast enough to send short-cropped, curly hair across her cheeks, Tabitha glared at him, too.

“No steak for me.” Harvey gave the man a wide smile, showcasing the missing teeth.

“Oh, my.” Ignoring Tabitha, the man leaned over. “Are you not level five yet? Or did you just get a bad class?”

At level five, Harvey’s class attributes would begin transforming his body, making his physical form reflect his character sheet. According to his former mentors, Lucas and Mr. Noritch, it would also rejuvenate his body, to a degree. Holding up two fingers, he said, “Just level two. We’re on a pilgrimage to visit the other Oases.” Each Oasis could bestow just one level, which made travel a necessity. Even with all the experience points from defeating the World Boss, Harvey couldn’t do anything with them except at an Oasis.

The man grinned broadly. “Then you’re on the right train. After Crystal Bay, it loops around. Assuming you’ve got the experience points for it, you’ll be able to hit level five within a couple of months.”

Harvey’s intuition tugged at his guts. He’d lived long enough to sense when someone might have an agenda. He’d earned a million experience points from the world boss. Anyone who killed him would get half of that, divided between whoever helped in the fight. It made him an appealing target to nearly every adventurer in the world. Giving the speaker a guileless grin, he said, “Well, now that the World Boss is dead, I figure I can do all sorts of things to get there.”

A flash of barely perceptible disappointment flashed across the man’s face. “I’m sure you will.” He held a hand out, across the aisle. “I’m Patrick Truitt. I’m a member of the Transit Marshal Authority.”

Harvy winced at the handshake. Patrick’s grip was bone-grindingly firm.

“Transit Marshal Authority?” Tabitha asked.

Releasing Harvey’s hand, the Marshall said, “Yes, ma’am. We make sure folks like you don’t encounter any problems.”

Tabitha exchanged a glance with Harvey, who was shaking his hand out. He didn’t quite feel bones popping back into place, but if Patrick had squeezed just a bit harder, he was sure that he would have.

“We didn’t see any marshals on our last trip,” Tabitha said.

“That’s normal, ma’am. We stick with routes of high importance, or with risk.” Patrick gave Tabitha a bright smile and pointed at the rear of the car. “We’ve got a team of engineering specialists come all the way from Saito on this route.” Lowering his voice to a hissed whisper, he added, “Plus, there’s rumors of bandit activity.”

“Bandits?” Tabitha sounded skeptical rather than scared.

“Of course. Thieves have been a bigger problem than ever over the last few years. I imagine with the World Boss dead and magic on the rise again, such things will only get worse.”

One of Patrick’s men said, “I heard a monster just popped out of thin air on the track of one of the other East-West trains. It made quite a mess. Scared a bunch of folks.”

“I’ll be right back.” Harvey reached across the table, squeezing Tabitha’s hand before sliding out of the booth.

“Thankfully, you’ve got us to watch out for you,” Patrick said. “Hey. What’s the old man doing?”

Tabitha gave him a flat look. “You just told him there are other engineers on board. I’m not responsible for his behavior.”

Librium Esoterica Entry–Harvey Laetus

Name: Harvey Laetus

Age: 62

Class: Father of Constructs (Legendary)

Level: 2

Acquired Experience: 1,005,008

Discretionary Experience: 934,500

Pillar: Physical (10), Mental (12), Spiritual (11)

Hit Points: 21 (Physical score (10), + ½ Resiliency (18) + Level (2))

Note: Due to your advanced age, you are Vulnerable. You are four times more likely to suffer critical injuries. You must reach level 5 to overcome this limitation.

Class Attributes

Mechanical Strength- 25: Provided you use physics and logic to apply force, the amount you can bring to bear reaches supernatural levels.

Resiliency - 18: You are incredibly durable and tough. The amount of rest you need is reduced by 75%.

Recall- 25: You can recall specific facts and details with minimal effort. This does not grant you an eidetic memory, however. Due to your advanced age, some facts simply will slip through the cracks.

Mechanical Insight- 18: You understand all things mechanical intuitively.

Strategic Forethought- 20: You can foresee consequences several steps beyond most people. This is not limited to mechanical skills; however, it is particularly useful when planning complex engineering tasks.

Ley Line Alignment- 16: You can sense the natural flow of ley lines and esoteric magic. This score dramatically improves your ability to create useful, effective esoteric effects.

Ley Sight- 14: You can see magical effects more clearly than others. This is particularly useful in crafts, as you will be able to trace the individual flows of magic visually.

Esoteric Resilience- 8: You have a significant natural resistance to all magic.

Esoteric Analysis- 14: You can interpret and understand esoteric functions far more quickly and fluidly than most others.

Class Skills

The following skills are level 2.

Entomology  (Inherited): This inherited skill has an innate level bonus of 25. You functionally know all common knowledge about mundane and supernatural insects.

Math and Physics (All)

Engineering (All- Mechanical)

Construction (All-Mechanical, and Esoteric)

Drawing, Writing, Planning (All)

Reading and Writing (Standard languages)

Reading and Writing (Esoteric-Construct Focused)

Geology (All)

Metallurgy (All)

Materials Science (All)

Mountaineering

Leatherworking (All)

Fabric Crafting and Manipulation (All)

Esoteric Theory (All-Construct Focused)

Esoteric Application (All-Construct Focused)

Ley Esoterica (All)

Advanced Class Skills (Available at Levels 10, 20, and 30)

These will become available if you progress.

Innate Abilities

Wind’s Whisper (Intuition): In times of extreme danger or opportunity, the wind may “speak” to you and lead you to a desired outcome. This effect may happen only twice per twenty-four hours. Limitation: Opponents with an ability that falls in the “Intuition” category may cancel this power out or override it with outcomes preferable to them. High-level opponents may disrupt this ability.

Class Abilities

Quick Combination: You may combine (basic) items into a simple magical item. This magical item must follow the rules of physics and is powered by esoterica. Creating this item takes an amount of time proportional to your level and the complexity of the target object. The maximum utility and power of the item you can create is based on your level. Limitation: You may have one item active at your current level. This increases to an additional item at levels 3, 8, 16, and 25.

Create (Basic Automaton): You may craft an unintelligent automaton that represents the culmination of your current knowledge and resources. Creating an automaton is often an expensive, time-consuming task. Upon creation, you may program your automaton with five basic commands. Limitation: You may have 1 active automaton active at level 1. You may craft an additional automaton at levels 9, 18, and 27. Advance in class levels to unlock “Standard,” “Advanced,” and other types of automatons.

Advanced Class Abilities

You will gain an additional class ability at levels 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30. Each ability will function proportionally to your level and may change and grow as you adventure. Check back frequently.

Acquired Template: Swarm Destroyer

Description: You have defeated a World Boss. In doing so, you have acquired a template in-line with its final shape. The name of this template is Swarm Destroyer. You have earned the following benefits:

In-State Regeneration: Your hit points will recover with supernatural speed, proportional to your level. This regeneration cannot heal you beyond your current maximum health. Ailments and injuries incurred prior to acquiring this template, including the Havoc Plague, will not be restored. It will, however, regenerate limbs lost after acquiring this template. Upon achieving the physical enhancements adventurers gain at levels 5 and 20, this ability will reset to the updated state.

Durable: You gain a passive resistance to all new sources of damage, including diseases and magical harm, proportional to your level. In addition, you must suffer significantly more damage than normal before you die. This enhanced death threshold is proportional to your level.

Swarm Senses: You can “see” using a combination of heightened senses. This will allow you to perceive in darkness or in other less common circumstances. The maximum distance of these senses is proportional to your level, plus any sensory enhancements you natively possess.

Insect Movement: At levels 3, 9, 15, 21, and 27, you may select one from the list of benefits below. You may not select the same benefit twice.

Swarm Speed: Increase your movement by an amount proportional to your level.

Insect Flight: Temporarily grow insect wings, with near-perfect maneuverability for up to 1 minute per your level. This ability resets after a short (1 hour) rest.

Burrowing: Gain the ability to burrow through porous terrain, such as sand or dirt. Your burrowing speed is proportional to your level.

Tight Fit: Fit in spaces equal to 1/10th of your size. This allows you to perform basic shapeshifting maneuvers.

Summon Swarm: Once per day, summon a supernatural swarm of insects to obey you. They remain up to one minute per your level or until banished or destroyed.

Bonus Skill–Entomology: You have been granted twenty-five free levels of the skill Entomology. This provides you with comprehensive knowledge of all normal and magical insects and their variations.

Chapter 2: Good People

Harvey made his way to the back of the dining car, where he discovered an older couple sitting side-by-side in a booth. The man was dark skinned, with a neat mess of curly white hair, and the woman had a creamy complexion with creased eyes that reminded Harvey of Shoju. Both were wearing neatly pressed clothes, the man in a black suit with a silk tie, and the woman in a peach-colored dress embroidered with little winged people. Neither had screens.

“Ah, excuse me?” Harvey waved. “I’m Harvey. Are you the engineers?” He tipped his head toward the marshal. “That gentleman mentioned you might be.”

Pausing in their conversation, the woman gave Harvey a shrewd, calculating look. “We are. Why are you asking?”

“I’m an engineer, too!” Hooking a thumb proudly at his chest, Harvey beamed at the two of them. “Brand new at it. I’ve only met a few other engineers. Would y’all mind some company?”

The woman seemed about to say no, but the man put a hand on top of hers. Speaking in a kindly voice, he said, “Mr. Harvey, I apologize if this sounds rude, but we’re not very good about entertaining folks not already in the profession. We’ve been doing this a long, long time, you see.”

“Oh.” Harvey felt his heart drop. “Do you mind if I ask just one question? I promise I’ll leave you both be.”

With a put-upon sigh, the woman said, “Go ahead.”

“I’m tryin’ to map an esoterica flow array into titanium conduit. The array is real small. Like, a hundred microns, give or take. It works at twenty-eight hundred degrees just fine. But here’s the rub. I want to do it a bit cooler, so it’s less time consuming to heat it all up, you know? So, I was trying to make a heat pump with vacuum glyphs. Only that caused the whole compartment to implode. Accordin’ to my math, I ought to be able to reduce the temperature by a solid three-hundred degrees or more, if I can get it workin’ right. I don’t suppose y’all have any ideas?”

The couple exchanged a bemused look.

“Mr. Harvey. My name is Chelle Mills. This is my husband, Donnathan. Would you mind joining us for breakfast?” Chelle waved a hand across the table.

“Oh, of course.” Harvey gestured wildly until the two men pushing the breakfast cart noticed him. “I’m sitting over here for a few. I’d like my eggs whenever you have a chance. And juice. You do have juice, right? I’d love some juice!”

* * *

Patrick slid into Harvey’s abandoned seat. His companion watched with bland expressions before turning back to their conversation. The execution of the maneuver was polished, Tabitha had to admit. “What’s your name?”

Giving the Marshal her best uninterested look, she said, “Tabitha.”

Nonplused at her expression, Patrick flourished a hand, producing a gold and silver badge from a folded breast pocket. “Have you ever seen one of these before? It’s a Transit Authority badge. It basically means we can go anywhere.” He nodded over to his companions. “If you’re headed to Crystal Bay, I could take you to see the Tubes. I’m sure you’ve heard of them. They don’t let outsiders visit, not without a big financial donation, anyway.”

Tabitha considered the handsome man across from her until he began to squirm. “You want me to go alone with you to something called the ‘Tubes’, is that right?”

The marshal licked his lips. “It’s perfectly safe. It’s beautiful, really. I just figured you might like to go.”

“What made you think that I’d like to go?”

“Well, uh. You’re wearing that.” He gestured at her wardrobe. “I figured maybe you’d enjoy something nice.”

His companions broke into a fit of chuckles, ruining the illusion that they weren’t listening in.

Glancing back, she saw Harvey gesture so wildly with his fork that bits of egg went flying. Runny yolk splashed against the immaculate wood beside his head. He didn’t notice. Realizing that she had time to kill, she returned her attention to Patrick. “How old do you think I am?”

Patrick looked taken back at the question. “I am sure I couldn’t guess. You look quite mature for whatever age you are.”

“Guess.”

“Ah. Um, nineteen?”

“Seventeen.” Tipping her chin at Harvey, she said, “I don’t go anywhere without a chaperone. My dad is really protective of me.” It was a lie. Harvey treated her with equality and respect in everything they did. He also wasn’t her father. Technically, she’d been an orphan since she was much younger. Living with different families, growing up dealing with men, she’d learned more than a few things about the games they played. Both the good and the bad.

“A chaperone?” Patrick chewed on the word. “I didn’t think country girls usually required chaperones.”

Tabitha gave him her best smile. “It doesn’t have to be my dad. I have a girlfriend. She’s gorgeous. I’m sure she’d come along, if you have room for two?”

The dying light in the marshal’s eyes rekindled, and his smile returned, brighter than ever. Tabitha had to dig her nails into her palm to keep herself from laughing. “That sounds absolutely delightful, Milady Tabitha. May I ask your companion’s name? I’d love to introduce myself.”

One of Patrick’s associates, a tanned young man with intense dark eyes, protested. “Hey! Two ladies means two of us go!”

Pretending to ignore the exchange, Tabitha continued to smile as she said, “Her name is Maywen. I’ll be glad to introduce you to her. I’m sure she’ll be delighted to meet you.”

* * *

“Harvey,” Donnathan said, leaning over several sheets of paper covered in math and schematics, “you’re leaving the most important aspect out.”

Rolling his tongue between two of his six remaining teeth, Harvey worried at a bit of sausage he’d taken a brazen bite of. “What?” The word came out like, “Thwaawt?”

“Exothermic and lumen byproducts during decay. Not to mention interaction with all this unleashed magic,” Chelle replied, not missing a beat at his lack of manners.

Blinking owlishly, Harvey repeated himself. “What?” The skills he’d been given from the Oasis dated back to five hundred years, or more, before the most-recent World Boss was imprisoned. His knowledge was advanced compared to modern scholars, but it also had many gaps.

Chelle reached into a small purse and withdrew a tiny orange coil of metal. It gave off a gentle, pulsating glow. “This is made from the purest form of recycled magic available. We impress it into a steel substrate to provide power. It’s strong and works with all the old esoteric patterns. It even works with some new ones we’ve discovered. The problem is it degrades. It’s like the magic eats the metal away. The more time passes, the hotter it gets.”

“And,” Donnathan said, “if any pure esoterica touches it, it accelerates the process. When we tried hooking one of these up to one of the old battery systems from the archives, it melted in minutes.” He opened a notebook he’d retrieved earlier in their conversation, showing an intricate, swirling pattern. “They glow, too. We found these patterns in metal bits all around the site once we could get back in and clean up after.”

“It exploded?” Harvey said. If recycled magic and pure magic interacted explosively, a lot of people would be about to be in trouble.

“No, thankfully. It mostly just got so hot that it melted everything down in a ten-foot area. That’s one of the reasons we went to Saito. To find replacement parts unavailable in Crystal Bay.”

“That’s good.” Harvey tipped his head down, studying the lines. Bits of insight tickled the back of his mind as he looked at them, like some deeper knowledge was hovering on the tip of his tongue. It felt like that sometimes, when the knowledge was part of his class, but his skill levels were too low. “This looks interesting.”

“We thought so too,” Chelle said, tapping the paper with one short-nailed finger. “We think this may be the key to replacing our old recycled magic systems with normal ones.”

“Well, no.” Harvey grabbed a pencil and made a quick diagram in a blank corner of a sheet of paper. “This is what you need to do. Flush the old recycled magic out and replace the esoteric engine with this design. It’s an esoteric converter. Should solve your problem for basic applications right away.”

Chelle and her husband gawked at him. “That’s all?” he said. “How did you figure this out?”

“Mhm. That’s all.” He waved the question away. “I got a class. No big deal.” Unable to read the looks they were giving him, he took another fork full of eggs. Those, at least, weren’t that difficult to get out of his teeth. “Problem is, it’ll eat away the substrate, just like your recycled magic does. I’m not sure if it’ll last longer. I imagine it must. Plus, it’ll be clean.” He paused, realizing the obvious question. “Say, how is it the two of you don’t have the plague? If you’re working with this stuff, it’s bound to get in you.”

Donnathan tapped the coil against the table. “Pure, it’s inert. We only handle the pure stuff, Mr. Harvey. It’s all the academics and premiere engineers interact with. The people we work with contract out to extraction and purification companies to handle the rest.”

“Oh.” Harvey swallowed a sudden mouth full of bile and put his fork down. His stomach churned, taking with it his appetite. Donnathan and Chelle were good people. He felt confident in that, just from half an hour of talking. They were also from another world. Where he was from, nearly half the people had the plague, especially the poor ones. Even “mild” cases of the Havoc Plague were bad. Harvey had caught it shortly after being born and had suffered from it both mentally and physically until he’d received his class from an Oasis. Others had disfigurements or magical ailments that went beyond easy treatment. Donnathan and Chelle had no idea just how much it cost folks to extract and purify the recycled magic they clearly loved so much.

He mollified his discomfort with the fact that with the World Boss dead, free and pure magic could cycle again. Soon, all the devices that used recycled magic would be replaced. Not only would the world know a renaissance of opportunity, but folks could also get levels again, and easier than ever since monsters were spawning. The plague would vanish entirely.

Bringing his attention back to the topic at hand, Harvey said, “Regular magic doesn’t produce heat when it breaks down. No light, either. It sounds a lot more stable than what you’re dealing with. Say, what is it y’all are doing out here, anyway?”

Chelle said, “We’re not allowed to talk about that. My husband and I work for the Prime Minister. Our work is confidential, I’m sorry.”

At his wife’s words, Donnathan quickly scooped up the papers, folding them neatly before tucking them into a briefcase at his side. “Sorry, Harvey. It’s probably best we hold off talking further, for now. Once we get to Crystal Bay, I’ll talk with the Prime Minister about you. If he approves, we’ll get you a job helping us in the engineering factory. Assuming you’d be interested?”

“I love factories,” Harvey said, beaming. “Making things is where I’m happiest.”

The couple exchanged a small, private smile. “Us, too,” Chelle said.

Seeing that the conversation was over, Harvey picked up his plate and made his way back to Tabitha.

“Hey, pops!” Tabitha exclaimed, scooting over to make room for him. Patrick was still sitting opposite her, his expression dogged.

Harvey took the cue and the offered seat. “How are y’all getting along?”

“Great,” Patrick said. “I’m going to take your daughter out to see the Tubes once we get to Crystal Bay. Assuming that’s okay with you?”

A booted heal pushed onto Harvey’s foot before he could clarify the error. “Maywen is going to chaperone us, if you’d be okay with that?” Tabitha gave him a bright smile. “Marshal Patrick has been telling me how the Tubes go to one of the only remaining underwater observatories in the world. He says there’s recycled magic suits folks wear to go out into the water and do all sorts of things. Doesn’t that sound wonderful?”

Ignoring everything about the interaction aside from the last couple sentences, Harvey gave an enthusiastic, “Ooh! Ooh! Yes! That sounds amazing. Make diagrams, if you can.” Giving Patrick his biggest, most toothless grin, he added, “I’d love it if you’d take me, too. We wouldn’t even need no chaperone, I reckon, since I’m an adult.”

“Uh.” Patrick’s eyes widened until the whites were showing. “There’s only so many passes I can, uh, give out.”

“Maybe one of your friends can take him? It’s only fair, considering you’re going to be going with two beautiful women, isn’t it?” Tabitha waved at the other table.

The words “beautiful women” seemed to be the tipping point. Patrick looked over at his friends and announced, “I’m sure we can work something out.”

“Great!” Harvey said. Then, without missing a beat, added, “Say, Mr. Marshal, how old are you? Early thirties, right? Did you know Tabitha was only seventeen?”Havey said

Shortly after, Patrick and his friends retreated from the dining car.

Librium Esoterica Entry – Tabitha Gentry