TITLE: The Eldritch Artisan (Father of Constructs Book 3)
AUTHOR: Aaron Renfroe
SERIES: Father of Constructs (Book 3)
WORDS EXTRACTED: 6047
============================================================

The Eldritch Artisan

A Father of Constructs LitRPG Story

Dedication

This book is dedicated to L.E. Modsesitt Jr. His books inspired a chunk of The Eldritch Artisan.

Introduction

Friends, it’s time. For those of you who wanted base-building and tons of innovation, this is the book. For all my RPG fans who love building and tower defense stories, this is your book.

Prelude: Emissary of Change

Shuju entered the dark building in the early hours of the morning. The delicate-looking woman wore her silk wrap cinched tightly, emphasizing her slenderness. Moving lightly on cloth shoes, she turned to lock the door behind her. Orange light flared when the metal clicked into place as the esoteric mechanism came into alignment. A puff of glowing miasma rose from the door, trailing into the air.

The gas traveled up over the door frame, where it swirled briefly over one of the energy tubes that wove through the building. Konovium, the tainted offspring of pure magic, provided the dwelling with its power.

Padding deeper into the building, Shuju came to a long, rectangular hall lined with mannequins. Each wore makeup and wardrobe of a style to match hers. One, the newest of the constructs, had a bare arm covered in elaborate tattoos.

Pausing, she turned to study the markings.

“Esoteric inlay?” she murmured, reaching out to confirm her suspicions. Her fingers moved across the flexible wire buried in the mannequin’s flesh.

The mannequin’s eyes fluoresced with bright esoterica. Its mouth moved, and Shuju’s own voice replied. “This is the latest design. We used what the inventor developed in Laldodem to improve our own workings. The results are imperfect, but quite destructive.”

“What are the capabilities?”

“This model can send a single blast of force through the limb. It would be sufficient to kill most armored men, although it would destroy the arm. The puppeteer can step the power down, if we need to stun a target instead.”

Shuju’s lips tightened into a hint of a smile. “How lovely.”

“We have sequestered the man’s allies in an Eldrahtai prison. They are being kept alive, in the event that they will prove useful. Now that we have lured the inventor back to Saito, your next assignment is to ensure he comes to the Vodul research facility.”

Straightening from her inspection, Shuju took a small step back. Studying the puppets for expression was meaningless, and the inflection was equally impossible to read. “I thought after what happened at Crystal Bay, the council was planning to terminate him?”

“We were. The Punitive Boss did far more damage than we expected. What you do not know, and we’ve had no reason to disclose, is that we sent a team to collect the man and his experience points much earlier.”

“Oh?” If they were telling her now, there had to be a reason.

“We sent a full strike force of our top elites, including the Ageless who would benefit the most from harvesting his experience. Something happened. None of them returned. When the Punitive Boss destroyed the entire Crystal Bay research facility, it also broke the protective seals to the neighboring facilities. The results were catastrophic. We lost several Masters and many of our researchers.”

“Ah. And this means?”

“It means we no longer have qualified people to develop the technology further. Harvey must be captured and coerced into finishing the weapons and containment array.”

Pursing her lips, Shuju considered what she knew and suspected about the old man. “I do not think he will agree to that lightly.”

“Hence, having his friends as collateral.”

“I understand. But why are you revealing all of this to me?”

“We needed you to understand why we are sending you a full mutant legion. They will arrive within twenty-four hours of his arrival in Saito. Based on the information we’ve gathered about the city, we suspect the local mercenary guilds will move against him shortly after his arrival. You must prevent this and bring him to us.”

“Does this mean I have permission to end my arrangement with Turpal Singh, then?”

“It does. He’s level four, correct?”

“Yes. But he has many guardians of equal, or even greater, level. There will be political fallout, as well.”

“Political turmoil will only benefit us. Will you require assistance?”

Shuju turned to take in the mannequins. At the back of the room, mounted on a wall, were dozens of ancient Continuum weapons. Beneath them, on a pedestal, was a stack of thin metal spikes, each longer than her outstretched palm. “Provide me with a decoy. I will handle the rest personally.”

A mannequin at the end of the long line jerked to life. Jaw flexing, the awakened puppet said, “Infiltrator Three-Seven-Twenty-Eight reporting for duty, agent Shuju.”

Like the other mannequin, the newly awakened one had Shuju’s voice.

Chapter 1: Responsibility’s Return

Familiar hands slid around Harvey’s chest. Looking out at the wind-swept ocean, now turbulent with an inclement storm, he brought both of his hands up to squeeze Wren’s.

“You’re not allowed to have that expression,” she said against his back, nuzzling close. “That much seriousness is for other people, not you.”

Harvey’s shaded eyes slid across the horizon, taking everything in. He stood at the edge of the cliffs, several hundred feet above the crashing waves. A stone causeway leading out to an Oasis stretched into the distance. Further south from where he stood, the ocean side city of Crystal Bay was a hive of activity. Locals, along with construction crews freshly brought in from around the continent, were scurrying to protect their work before the storm hit. Without him, Tabitha, and Reacher helping, he guessed it would take them the better part of a year to rebuild.

“Harvey?” Wren said, squeezing him even tighter. The Mistress of Spies had a spare, graceful build. She was far stronger than she appeared, though. At level twelve, her embrace was more than enough to grab his full attention.

Twisting to side-eye her, Harvey spoke in the crisp dialect of High Court. “Am I not vulnerable to the spin of gravity, like any other man? Will my aspirations and dreams not yield to the cruel, clawing grasp of reality as all people?”

His voice was deep and resonant now. Harvey’s fifth level transformation had been superior to others who reached that same peak, thanks to Tabitha’s negotiations on his behalf. When he spoke, it was with vibrato and presence, as if the wisdom of all his years carried with it a palpable weight.

More than his voice had changed. Before, he’d been a tall, but frail, old man. The transformation had brought his physical stature in-line with the attributes on his screen. He was tall and muscular now, with the sort of chiseled good looks that proclaimed his nature as an adventurer to the world. There would be no hiding that Harvey was a person of importance anymore.

“Ach, aye, my love. Ye are just a man. But you’re a Harvey-man. Yer not allowed to take that long face.” Wren’s reply was in the lilting, clipped vocabulary of Low Court. Switching back to her normal, precise accent, she added, “And with that question, you’ve given yourself up.”

Facing her fully, he wrapped his arms around her waist and arched a silver eyebrow. “How do ya reckon?”

“You’ve just been pretending not to remember our language lessons, mister.” She poked his chest. “How dare you play dumb with me.”

Her mock-scolding earned her one of his big, bright grins.

“I take it by your presence that the train will be ready to depart soon?” Shades flashing, he looked over her shoulder, back up the winding road that led to the train station.

“We’ve got a few hours before we need to be there. It’s just enough time to collect our things and go.”

“Just enough time…” his voice trailed off. “Why can’t there be more?” Gently extricating himself from her arms, he reached up to tap his forehead. “The skills in here tell me all the ways we could prepare. Strategic Forethought is screaming at me. I can’t stop thinking about all the things I could be doing, or building.” Biting back a rising wave of self-doubt, he searched her eyes. “I just don’t know what the next right thing is.”

Grudgingly allowing him to break the embrace, Wren waited for him to finish speaking before taking his hand. Fingers laced, she drew him with her back to the building that had been their home for the past month. The grand building, half living quarters, half warehouse, was where he’d been working tirelessly for most of that time.

She said, “I’m sorry. My contacts didn’t give me more information. I only know the city sent them on an emergency mission for the Saito Transit Authority. They were headed somewhere west, toward the Vodul crater, when they vanished. From what my contact could gather, they’d actually been gone for several weeks before word got out.”

“How did anyone find out?”

“Suzanna Crow’s people found out. She’s Lucas’s ancestor, and one of the ones who sealed the World Boss in the first place.”

Harvey gawked over at her. “He didn’t mention she was still alive.”

“That entire adventuring group was Ageless, Harvey. From what I understand, the only member of that original team who died is Winston, Felodin’s father. Other than Susanna, the rest just haven’t been seen or heard from for years.”

“I reckon that makes sense. But if she’s still alive, why isn’t she off finding them?”

She squeezed his hand. “That’s a question for her, for when we arrive. My guess? Politics. She protects Saito, and with monsters threatening the city and countryside, she’s got other responsibilities.”

“More responsibilities than her own grandson?”

“One of many grandsons and granddaughters, Harvey,” Wren gently rebuked. “Ageless, remember?”

The land around their warehouse home was covered in a blanket of ankle-deep, swaying grass. Despite recent events with the boss spawn tearing through the area, the grass had regrown in record time. Walking in silence for several minutes, they entered the building.

Harvey, Tabitha, and Reacher had rebuilt the warehouse as a combination of construction facility, living quarters for themselves and the locals, and place to conduct esoteric research.

Walking inside the wide, hangar-style door, he waved over to Tabitha and Reacher. The young woman, who was rapidly approaching her eighteenth birthday, returned his gesture with a beaming grin. With short cropped blonde hair and sparkling blue eyes, she had the muscular leanness of someone who worked with their hands for a living. Dressed in a long leather apron, and wearing gloves, she was using tongs to extract a length of metal from Reacher’s Esoteric Processor.

She’s growing up so fast, he thought. Not long ago, she’d just been a waif, learning from an old man. Now, with four levels behind her, she was truly coming into her own.

“One second!” she called to them, taking the yellow-white metal and quenching it in a vat of oil. When she pulled it out, Reacher presented a tub of water. Symbols on the side of the tub lit up as they drew in esoterica, the magic of their world. When she dunked the blade and extracted it this time, an etching on the side of the blade lit up with a gentle blue-white glow.

Harvey tugged on Wren’s sleeve. “It worked! She got the stamp to work!”

“She got what to work?” Wren asked indulgently.

Putting the blade down next to a collection of three more, Tabitha pulled her gloves off. Lifting one of the finished ones, she held it up. “They are more durable and sharper than normal.” Running her well-worn fingernail down across the symbols on the side, she grinned with nearly the same manic enthusiasm as her teacher.

“But isn’t that easy?” Moving over to Tabitha, Wren looked down, inspecting the metal. At an inviting gesture from Tabitha, she picked one blade up. Looking around, she found a piece of discarded wood and tried the edge out. It sliced through with ease. “It’s impressive, but it feels just like any other magical blade I own.” She cut off, realization making her blush. “No offense to either of you.”

“None taken,” Tabitha said. She held a hand out.

Reacher, the epic-tier forge assistant construct, straightened a bit and passed her a leather handle, along with several metal fixings.

As she began joining the hilt to a blade, Tabitha explained, “What’s important is that we did it, and that it worked with a stamp.”

The construct held up a long rod. At the end of the rod was an outline made of thin metal wire.

“Duplication is very important,” Harvey added, beaming at Tabitha. “I have to add, she did the design herself. All while juggling trips to help the locals out.” His voice was full of warmth and praise, enough to earn a little blush from the girl.

Wren’s fingers moved down the back of the blade, where Tabitha had added a rounded knot of metal nearly a finger’s width in diameter. “What’s this for?”

“We’re calling it an Esoteric Battery. It’s for dealing with esoteric erosion,” Harvey explained. “Every time the magic activates to do something, it costs a little material. Thanks to Maywen’s armor, we figured out how to mitigate that cost. As long as the fuel source is connected to the same material as the symbol, we can off-set the cost without destroying the item.”

“But it will erode in time, right?” Wren asked.

Tabitha said, “Yes, but we can weld on another backing piece easily enough. It’s not the same as infinitely free blades of awesome, but it’s close.”

“Blades of awesome,” Wren repeated amusingly, putting the blade down. “I came to collect you all. The train will depart soon. We’ve got a few hours before it’s time to go to Saito.”

Reacher made a curious, squeaking sound, drawing their attention to his Esoteric Processor. The Processor had originally been a simple block of steel with ports of different sizes and shapes. Each port led to a different sized furnace. He could control every aspect of those furnaces. It allowed the construct to heat and manipulate materials at almost impossible speeds. Over their months together, during one upgrade to the construct, Tabitha had taken it upon herself to redesign the non-magical metal surface of the processor. She called them his “faces.” As a result, instead of evenly spaced squares, rectangles, and trapezoids, Reacher’s furnace ports came in enough variety to mimic a few human facial features.

They weren’t well crafted human facial features, however.

As he opened and shut one of the furnace doors, producing the quizzical sound, a blast of his core heat illuminated several of the ports in the configuration they’d all come to recognize as him asking a question.

If there’d been any children around, they would likely have screamed in terror at the fiery, leering sight.

“Um, what was that?” Wren said.

“He was asking how long the trip will take,” Tabitha translated.

“Oh. About a week.”

Reacher held one of his eight limbs up, giving her a thumbs-up. His arms, which were adorned with bands of gleaming metal, which were evenly spaced around the Processor, were made of a thick gray material. They ended in black, six-fingered hands. During his most recent repairs, Harvey had given the construct a fresh coat of custom black paint, which made him blend in with the background.

Wren also noticed the handles of machetes hanging out of Processor ports that were not in use. Given Reacher’s size, that meant his weapons were practically polearms.

“He’s got jewelry.” She pointed at the bracers.

Harvey chuckled. “Better than that. But we don’t have time for us to show you everything we’ve been working on.” He waved for them to walk with him to his private laboratory, behind a thick steel door. “Since we’re leaving, I think it’s time to give you both a present.”

Tabitha clapped. “At last! I’ve been wondering what you’ve been tinkering with.”

Smirking, Wren said, “Harvey’s spare time tinkering would be the work of a lifetime for most people.”

He waved the compliment away. “I’ve got a Legendary Class. It’s not fair to hold folk with as much privilege as I’ve been given to the same standards as most people. Now, c’mon. Let me show you!”

Wren paused a moment to watch him walk off, practically skipping with excitement. “He really has no idea just how special he is,” she murmured. “All that power, and he just wants to help people.”

“And protect those he cares about,” Tabitha added, walking past. “Come on. You said we’re running low on time. Let’s see what he’s got for us!”

Librium Esoterica Entry – Harvey Laetus

Name: Harvey Laetus

Age: 62

Class: Father of Constructs (Legendary)

Level: 5

Acquired Experience: 1,222,500

Discretionary Experience: 1,148,000

Evolutionary Experience: 100

Pillar: Physical (15), Mental (18), Spiritual (13)*

*Note: Your pillar has been enhanced as a result of reaching level 5 and enjoying a 50% enhancement bonus due to a quest.

Hit Points: 29 (Physical score (15), + ½ Resiliency (18) + Level (5))

Class Attributes

Mechanical Strength- 25

Resiliency - 18

Recall- 25

Mechanical Insight- 18

Strategic Forethought- 20

Ley Line Alignment- 16

Ley Sight- 14

Esoteric Resilience- 8

Esoteric Analysis- 14

Class Skills

The following skills are level 5.

·     	Base Building

·     	Entomology (Inherited): This inherited skill has an innate level bonus of 25. You functionally know all common knowledge about mundane and supernatural insects.

·     	Exoskeletal Armaments

·     	Math and Physics (All)

·     	Engineering (All- Mechanical)

·     	Construction (All-Mechanical, and esoteric)

·     	Drawing, Writing, Planning (All)

·     	Reading and Writing (Standard languages)

·     	Reading and Writing (esoteric-Construct Focused)

·     	Geology (All)

·     	Metallurgy (All)

·     	Materials Science (All)

·     	Mountaineering

·     	Leatherworking (All)

·     	Fabric Crafting and Manipulation (All)

·     	Esoteric Theory (All-Construct Focused)

·     	Esoteric Application (All-Construct Focused)

·     	Ley Esoterica (All)

Innate Abilities

Light Sensitivity: Bright light blinds or can damage you. This power significantly enhances your Ley Sight attribute, allowing you to see magic more easily.

Wind’s Whisper (Intuition): In times of extreme danger or opportunity, the wind may “speak” to you and lead you to a desired outcome. This effect may happen only twice per twenty-four hours. Limitations: Opponents with an ability that falls in the “Intuition” category may cancel this power out or override it with outcomes preferable to them. Opponents with higher levels may disrupt this ability.

Monroe’s Pocket: Monroe’s pocket is an extra-dimensional space. It will provide you with up to 1-ton of timeless storage per your level in the Esoteric Application skill. At level 12, this will be enhanced to include an inventory management aspect. Limitations: Like all similar spaces, you may not store living organisms. You may only move the total tonnage of the Monroe’s Pocket once per day (at level 5, this means only 5 tons of material may be moved in or out in total per day). You may not use this ability during combat. Clarification: Combat officially begins within 2 seconds of when enemy health bars completely manifest.

Insect Flight: Temporarily grow insect wings, with near-perfect maneuverability for up to 1 minute per your level. This ability resets after a short (1 hour) rest.

Class Abilities

Quick Combination: You may combine (basic) items to create a simple magical item. You may craft up to (2) of these at your current level. These items must follow the rules of physics and are powered by esoterica. Creating these items takes an amount of time proportional to your level and the complexity of the target objects. The maximum utility and power of the item you can create is based on your level. Limitation: You may have two items active at your current level. This increases to an additional item at levels 8, 16, and 25.

Create (Standard Automaton): You may craft an automaton that behaves with basic intelligence. Due to your enhanced familiarity with construct minds, your constructs are significantly enhanced compared to other classes with this skill. The automaton may communicate simplistically and learn up to thirty commands of up to 10 words each. Limitation: You may have 1 active automaton active. You may craft an additional automaton at levels 9, 18, and 27. Advance in class levels to unlock “Advanced,” and other types of constructs.

Eye of the Architect: You may study any object rooted in physics (constructs, guns, trains, and other mechanical objects) and manifest a blueprint of the object.  It will not duplicate esoteric elements of the scanned object; however, the crafted blueprint will incorporate esoteric etchings you know to make the design function. If a functional duplicate cannot be created, this ability will fail. The blueprint created by this power is made of highly durable material, and is eligible for scanning by constructs like Reacher. You may create up to 2 such blueprints per day. It takes a minimum of 1 minute to complete the scan, and scales upwards based on the complexity of the observed object. Limitation: This power will fail on objects that require more than 3 levels above what you are currently capable of crafting.

Advanced Class Abilities

You will gain an additional class ability at levels 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30. Each ability will function proportionally to your level and may change and grow as you adventure. Check back frequently.

Acquired Template: Swarm Destroyer

Description: You have defeated a World Boss. In doing so, you have acquired a template in-line with its final shape. The name of this template is Swarm Destroyer. You have earned the following benefits:

In-State Regeneration: Your hit points will recover with supernatural speed, proportional to your level. This regeneration cannot heal you beyond your current maximum health. Ailments and injuries incurred prior to acquiring this template, including the Havoc Plague, will not be restored. It will, however, regenerate limbs lost after acquiring this template. Upon achieving the physical enhancements adventurers gain at levels 5 and 20, this ability will reset to the updated state.

Durable: You gain a passive resistance to all new sources of damage, including diseases and magical harm, proportional to your level. In addition, you must suffer significantly more damage than normal before you die. This enhanced death threshold is proportional to your level.

Swarm Senses: You can “see” using a combination of heightened senses. This will allow you to see at night or in other less common circumstances. The maximum distance of these senses is proportional to your level, plus any sensory enhancements you natively possess.

Insect Movement: At levels 9, 15, 21, and 27, you may select one from the list of benefits below. You may not select the same benefit twice.

·     	Swarm Speed: Increase your movement by an amount proportional to your level.

·     	Burrowing: Gain the ability to burrow through porous terrain, such as sand or dirt. Your burrowing speed is proportional to your level.

·     	Tight Fit: Fit in spaces equal to 1/10th of your size. This allows you to perform basic shapeshifting maneuvers.

·     	Summon Swarm: Once per day, summon a supernatural swarm of insects to obey you. They remain up to one minute per your level or until banished or destroyed.

Abbreviated Esoterica Pattern List

You have access to a wide array of esoteric patterns. These function a lot like magical cantrips, only you can freely incorporate them into your crafting. This makes what you can build, and the effects you can create, incredibly flexible. A few of the patterns you know are:

Endure: Bestow a short boost of endurance to an object, increasing its resilience by 50%. The duration is highly flexible, depending on the target of the pattern and the materials involved.

Create Air: You may create breathable air. The duration and amount of air created is highly flexible, depending on the base material used to make the effect.

Create Water: As per Create Air, only for small amounts of drinking water.

Restore Shape: Create a pattern in substrate material. When the material is deformed, this effect will allow you to build trigger conditions to return the material to its original shape. This will not work if the pattern is destroyed. Each use of this power will consume material, potentially weakening the object or burning the spell out.

Reassemble (Simple): Create a simple pattern on one or more objects (up to 10), then arrange the objects however you wish and issue a command. The next time you say that command, the objects will return to the arrangement. You must be within 120 feet for the command to work, and no object may be further than 10 feet from another. If they are, the spell fails. Each use of this power will consume material, potentially weakening the objects or burning the spell out.

Silent Command (Simple): Tattoo or inscribe a pattern in your scalp. You may place a mirrored inscription on a construct or automaton. You may communicate with the target telepathically, provided you are within 1 mile. This tattoo or inscription must be reapplied every level.

Lighten (Lesser): You make an object up to 50 pounds lighter per your level, up to a maximum of half its original weight. The duration of this pattern is dependent on the substrate and the quality of material used to craft it.

Innate Healing: Constructs made with this pattern gain natural self-healing properties. The duration of this pattern is based on the substrate. On a construct like Reacher, it will last 6 months before it needs to be redrawn.

Dismantle: Inscribe this pattern on a machine to dismantle it. Constructs and automatons this is used on suffer significant damage.

Chapter 2: Harvey, Twice as Stubborn

Harvey’s private room was heavily reinforced. It wasn’t made that way for his privacy; rather, he’d built it to protect anyone from the results of his experiments. Reacher slid in behind the group, using every iota of dexterity he had to squeeze his arms, then core, through the five-foot-wide doorway. Once they were all inside, Reacher closed the door behind him.

The space was modest, at least as far as one of Harvey’s construction chambers went. At thirty feet to a side, the area had seven tall, stout wooden and steel tables. Diagrams, some manufactured by his new power, lay on top of most of them. Dangling in the center of the room, held in place by a thin chain, was Maywen’s armor.

Maywen was an Ageless and had been alive for nearly eight hundred years. Incredibly, her armor had survived the entire time, and with minimal loss of function. Thanks to a boss attack carving up a quarter of the chest plate, magic no longer flowed through it. Maywen had left it behind for Harvey to study, and he’d promised to repair it.

As Wren inspected the schematic diagrams, she realized just how serious he’d become about doing just that. All his research seemed to be about repairing, or understanding, the magic of Maywen’s legendary armor.

Making his way through the room, Harvey stopped in front of a pair of lifeless puppets. They were the hollowed-out remnants of the weapons they’d dealt with over a month ago. Draped across each of the vaguely feminine creations was a long-sleeved shirt. The clothes glistened and shone with the rainbow reflective patina of oil.

“Ooh!” Tabitha said, closing the distance. “What are these? Are they made of scales?”

Removing one of the shirts, Harvey offered it over to her. “Good eye. They are scales. I based the design on the chain material connecting the metal plates of Maywen’s armor. Put it on. The activation word is ‘Bestie.’”

Taking the offered clothing, Tabitha unlaced the apron and pulled it off. Showing no signs of embarrassment about the oily, dirty shirt and pants beneath, she pulled the new garment on over the other. “Bestie? Seriously?”

A gentle blue-white glow shimmered through the material as thousands of individual scales, each shaped a bit like a crab claw, stiffened. She immediately stood straighter as the shirt drew taut. At her waist, a series of knotted metal beads gently clicked together.

Moving with effort, Tabitha bent forward to study the beads. “Batteries? Is this protective armor?”

“It is,” Harvey said brightly. “To turn it off, just say ‘Westie’.”

Glaring at him, she repeated the word. It relaxed with a gentle clicking sound, allowing her to take it off. She put it on a nearby table and bent over to study the construction up close. “Did you make the scales out of glass?”

Spotting something on a nearby table, Wren picked it up. It was a palm-sized version of the little scales in the shirt. The side she held was smooth, with subtle ridges. When she flipped it over, there was a complex web of esoteric designs forged into the glass.

“Had to do it in glass.” Harvey looked over at a big bin of discarded parts. “Glass is an amorphous solid, kinda like a liquid. I couldn’t get the pattern to replicate and break accurately without Reacher’s furnace.” He beamed over at the construct, who held two hands up.

Double Thumbs-Up.

Havey went on, “They’ll give you passive protection. If you activate them, they become brittle, but can take a pretty big hit.”

Putting the large scale down, Wren walked over to the shirt on the other mannequin. Running her palm across the smooth texture, she asked, “How big of a hit? Also, please tell me you didn’t give mine the same command words.”

“Bug to activate, bog to deactivate.” He gave her a big, almost maniacal grin before continuing, “And not that big, relatively speaking. As big as I could make it with the material. Maywen’s armor is all magical metals that I didn’t have access to, not that I could duplicate the patterns precisely even with them. But I took inspiration. During our testing, the armor could handle one of Reacher’s big hits before cracking.”

Wren looked over at the construct. Reacher twisted until one of his grinning face-sides aimed at her. Tabitha had tried to carve teeth into a crescent shape on that side. The result was closer to a fanged, misshapen demonic leer. “Harvey, you realize Reacher can literally bend steel with his hands. When you say, ‘not that big’, you’re probably describing a cannon blast.”

“Just one,” Harvey said, a little meekly. “Maybe two.”

“As the resident medic, I’ll point out that this might stop the shrapnel or diminish the impact of a cannon blast, or whatever, but there’s still a thing called impact trauma.” Tabitha pointed at Reacher. “Even if these can withstand a Reacher punch, anyone without a hit point bar up and some levels is going to be turned to mush. I don’t care how much structural stability you build into these things, physics still happens to the wearer.”

“Ayup,” Harvey said agreeably. “The good news is you both have screens and levels, so they ought to work just fine. Making these took a lot of my free time, so I don’t see mass production being an option.”

“Harvey, why are there only two here?” Wren gave him a pointed look. “I know you’re not wearing one.”

Tabitha cleared her throat and rolled her eyes.

“It’s not that! She hugged me earlier,” he protested Tabitha’s look. “And I don’t need one.”

“Harvey, as much as I adore you, bravado will get you killed,” Wren said.

“Oh. Absolutely.” Walking to another table, he pointed at a strange collection of glass lenses, all connected with cunning armature. A metal-banded leather shirt with long sleeves and matching pants sat next to it. “I made this for me. It’s not as defensive, but it’ll aid my work when the time comes. It also took much less effort, relatively speaking.”

With a put-upon sigh, Wren gestured for Tabitha to turn around. Once the girl had, the woman peeled out of her dress. As complicated as the lacy thing looked, it didn’t take her long; as a spy, all of Wren’s clothes were designed for ease of removal.

For most of his sixty years, Harvey had suffered from the Havoc Plague. It had crippled his mental development and rendered him prone to injury. Free of its restraints, and given a new lease on life, the man saw the beauty of the world with fresh eyes. One of his favorite aspects of being healed, other than having teeth, was looking at Wren.

Ironically, she was older than he was. Yet, like him, she’d been graced with preternatural youthfulness. She looked like she was somewhere between her late thirties or early fifties, depending on how she dressed and did her hair. Trim and athletically fit, she moved with a dancer’s grace. Watching her slide her fingers across the gift he’d made for her, seeing the knowing appreciation on her face, warmed his heart as few things could.

Wren was a level twelve Mistress of Spies, and as seasoned as adventurers came. Despite not having any interest, or background, in the sorts of skills Harvey and Tabitha used, she showed genuine interest whenever they spoke of their inventions. As she tugged the shirt on, covering her modest underclothes, he saw an expression of recognition flash on his lover’s face.

Stretching and twisting in all directions, she said, “It’s sized perfectly. How?”

“I cheated and used Reacher’s hugs.”

Thumbs-up.

Tabitha called over her shoulder, in the impatient tone only a teenager could manage. “Okay you two, if you’ve had enough showing off, do you mind if I go finish packing? I also have a couple knives to finish and then want to go down to town to say my goodbyes.”

“How about you ask that again, but in High Court?” Wren prompted.

Shoulders sagging, Tabitha recited, “Against the proximity of coming change, with all that remains ahead, I wish to take my leave. Hither shall I go, to say fond farewells to new friends and acquaintances alike. I shall not tarry, for…”

Harvey broke in, adopting Low Court. “Ach! Ye wee lassie, get ye gone. And make it yipper snipper!”

Without waiting for him to finish, Tabitha grabbed her new protective shirt and fled the room. At Harvey’s gesture, Reacher followed.

Once they were alone, Wren broke down into a fit of giggles. “Yipper snipper? Seriously? You know those aren’t words, right?”

“Ach, they aren’t? Oi, foiled by my wee lass of a teacher.” Harvey’s eyes twinkled with amusement.

Shaking her head, Wren made her way over to him. Looping her arms around his shoulders, she grinned into a gentle kiss. “If you pull tricks like that in Saito, they’ll take you for a fool.”

“They’ll take me however they can get me.” Harvey replied, returning the kiss. “I didn’t realize how much language shapes thinking until now.”

“What do you mean?”

“High Court bakes in concepts like some folk being inherently better than the other. By speaking it, you let the thoughts of aristocracy seep into your brain.”

“And Low Court?”

“The opposite. It’s all about remindin’ poor folk about how weak and grateful they should be to their betters. I don’t know if I like all those thoughts bein’ in my head.” His troubled expression deepened as he struggled to put his feelings into words. “It’s not right, thinking of some people as being disposable, or less, just because of where they were born. Magic is free in the world again. There shouldn’t be Low Court or High Court.”

Squeezing him tightly, Wren leaned up to kiss him again. “And this, Harvey, is precisely why you let me do all the talking when we arrive, okay? You’re not meant to be a man who navigates complex social diplomacy. That’s my job. We’re going to focus on getting you to the Saito Oasis and finding Lucas and his team. That’s it. I’ll handle anything involving the official apparatus, okay?”

Harvey’s jaw tightened. “Teaching people to think in their own heads that they deserve to be mistreated ain’t right.” Seeing Wren’s warning expression, he softened his tone. “We’ll get the Oasis and our friends taken care of. Once I’m level thirty, we’ll come back and have a firm talk with those in power. How about that?”