TITLE: Divine Invasion (The Resonance Cycle Book 1)
AUTHOR: Aaron Renfroe
SERIES: The Resonance Cycle (Book 1)
WORDS EXTRACTED: 6050
============================================================

Divine Invasion

The Resonance Cycle, a LITRPG series, Book 1

Introduction

Welcome to the Resonance Cycle. This series is a love letter to my youth; a time when I read every book in the Fantasy section of the store, and played Dungeons and Dragons religiously. I decided to use the LitRPG framework for the series for a lot of reasons, the primary one being that I enjoy writing a lot like I DM tabletop adventures. Thank you for listening, and I hope you enjoy the twisting adventures ahead.

Chapter 1: Random Selection

Ty’s computer was possessed, and he didn’t want his grandmother to know. It started just a few seconds ago. Both of his monitors glitched way out, with swirls of color and fractals bleeding through a flurry of movement from his desktop icons. For a second, he thought he was being hacked, but then his screens flickered, and the speakers started popping and hissing. Leaning forward, Ty thought he could hear a strange voice murmuring just below the noise.

Definitely possessed, he decided.

One monitor went dark, and the other began displaying a series of images, all side by side. They were the covers of audiobooks. The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant came first. Then, The Guardians, Magic Kingdom for Sale, and finally Heroes Die. The tableau froze in place before that monitor turned off, too.

“What the actual fuck?” Ty murmured, standing. The barrage of images had happened too quickly for him to process, and his first thought was to unplug his PC. A wind blew through his bedroom, riffling the collage of post-it notes decorating the closest wall.

The power in his room went out. Drenched in darkness, Ty fumbled for his phone only to discover it didn’t work either. His grandmother yelled in a warbling rasp, “Ty! Ty, I think the power is out. I was in the middle of one of my shows!”

Ty opened his mouth to reply when a mote of flickering fire blossomed in the air directly in front of his computer screens. The flame wavered briefly before expanding into a wall of warm, glowing text.

“You have been randomly selected to fight for your world. Prove yourself and your loved ones may survive the Resonance. In precisely six months, a portal will open for three minutes. Study the prophecy closely if you wish to survive. This is your only advice or warning. The portal will appear wherever you are located. No other sentient being may go through it with you. This offer will not come again.”

Ty read the words twice before they shrank back into the fire and zipped towards his face. Screaming reflexively, he tried to dodge. The spark veered in flight, hitting his forehead. Warmth spread from the spot, radiating down until his whole body felt tingly. Ty felt a flickering, as if someone had turned the lights in him off and on, then he blinked. The power was back. His computer looked like nothing had happened. One monitor had the same browser, tabs carefully organized for work or gaming at the top. On the other was the collage of images.

Looking over at his notes, he saw his lists were still in order and intact. Exhaling with relief, he said, “Grandma, I think-,” about to say, “I’ve been visited by another world.”. He couldn’t finish the sentence. Pressure radiated from the point of the flame’s impact, locking his jaws together hard enough that his teeth clipped his tongue. It took him a moment to parse what had happened. Every time he tried to say anything about the fire or wind, his mouth wouldn’t work. Eventually, he had an idea.

He tried texting a description of what happened. The familiar pressure rose, and his fingers went numb. No matter how hard he tried, he couldn’t make the muscles respond until he put the phone back down.

“It’s going to be like that, eh?” he said, musingly, looking back at his computer.

Setting his phone down on his desk, Ty took a seat. Searching his computer, he found the books in the image file and quickly skimmed their summaries, along with their Wikipedia entries. As he did, he made notes on a pad he kept nearby. A quick rundown of keywords helped him collect his thoughts. Once he’d finished his lists, he reviewed the summary of events.

He’d been visited by an otherworldly presence; one he couldn’t talk or text about. That meant it had some sort of awareness of his intent or actions. Experimentally, he considered some other indirect method of sharing the event, like sharing his notes with another person. Another stab of discomfort made him wince, and his vision blurred.

On the one hand, the discomfort worsened with each of his attempts to find a work-around. On the other, their presence gave him the proof he needed. What he’d just experienced was real. Not only was it real, he wouldn’t be able to share the experience with anyone. Not that anyone would believe him, anyway.

A sharp knock interrupted Ty’s introspection, followed by a shrill yell. “Honey! My shows are back on! I just wanted you to know.” His grandmother’s hearing aid must have been acting up again.

“Okay grandma, I’m glad!” Ty replied, raising his voice for her to hear.

Ty loved his grandmother as much as anyone he knew. She was also the only person he interacted with in real life whenever he could help it. People were messy. They did things, made choices he didn’t understand. Unless he could compartmentalize and control the interaction, he didn’t like to have it. That was why virtual gaming and remote work were so important.

It wasn’t that he disliked people. In theory, he thought people were fascinating. It was the practice that challenged him.

Once he heard her shuffling back down the hallway, Ty returned to his gaming chair. Slumping in place, he brainstormed. Bringing the books back up, he knew they had to be the clue, the cornerstone of what he needed to understand. He’d inherited physical copies of most of those books from his late father, though he’d picked up a passion for the genres on his own later in life and repurchased them as audiobooks.

Looking down at his list, he drew his finger across the words “Portal Fantasy.” Based on context clues, he felt confident in assuming he’d be in the same situation. Judging by the phrasing in the fire and the last book, he guessed he wouldn’t be alone after his arrival.

He added a few additional notes. That Thomas Covenant was in the selection worried Ty more than anything else. That book was soul-crushingly grimdark, with huge consequences for every choice the protagonist made. On the plus side, unlike any of those books, he had six months to plan. Also, he had absolute and irrefutable proof the situation was real. Unless, he conceded, I have a tumor.

Yeah, but what tumor would prevent me from texting? He resisted the urge to search the internet for explanations; once he started down that rabbit hole, there’d be no going back.

Thinking of the fire that hit his forehead gave him pause. What if someone had invaded his thoughts? Was he being led into a trap, or manipulated in some cosmic game?

Assuming the warning is true, I have a chance to save some people. That’s all it offered. It might be best to just bet that I am being manipulated. If we assume the Game Master is hostile from the start, maybe we can force an advantage.

Lacking better information or context, he shelved the concern. Ty was good at focusing when he had a clearly defined challenge, and while this was neither clear nor defined, he had to work with what he’d been given.

He wrote on the pad, ‘Six months–use the advantage?’

The sound of Grandma’s television ratcheting up made Ty pause. Should he stay to take care of her? She was old and increasingly frail. If he went to another world, there was no way of knowing what would happen to her. She had a pension from the military, but what about transportation and safety?

Your loved ones may survive. The image flickered in his mind’s eye, utterly inescapable. Blaire was his only family. That didn’t mean he didn’t care about other people. His friends were all virtual, but that didn’t make them any less important. If his going could save lives, didn’t that mean he had to go? Grandma Blaire and Grandpa Billy had raised him to value the right choice, to evaluate every decision carefully.

He knew what Billy would say, if he were still alive and able to discuss what was happening. When the call comes, it’s up to you to decide the sort of man you’re going to be. Billy had been fond of metaphors and sayings. He’d have wanted Ty to go.

His finger slid up to the word “Dangerous.”

In each of the example books, the protagonists ultimately came to realize the harsh reality of the other world. There was death, loss, and extreme physical trauma. Ty wasn’t equipped to handle any of those well. He didn’t have any illusions about himself: he was a loner, a man who preferred the isolation and solitude of a life spent online. Violence, although exciting in theory, hadn’t ever been a part of his life.

Ty saw the risks, weighed them carefully, writing out pros and cons for an hour before reaching his conclusion. He would go. This adventure would be different. He’d make it different. Unlike the people in the books, Ty was a planner. He’d make lists, research every possibility.

He would own his fate.

Glancing at the clock, Ty saw it was nearing ten. It was time for him to clock-in to his remote job. The work wasn’t difficult, just occasionally tedious. Instead of his usual routine of chatting or listening to a book, he spent the rest of the night focused on one thing: surviving what came next.

Chapter 2: Planning

Time Until Portal Opening: 5 months, 29 days

The image with all the audiobook covers was called GOTProphecy.uww. Ty discovered it halfway through his shift when he tried inspecting the file. The file behaved bizarrely; he could open and close it, but he couldn’t copy, delete, or email it. There was no metadata, and the type of file wasn’t recognized by any of his research. If nothing else had convinced him that what he was experiencing was real, that was it.

Bleary-eyed and sleepy, he stood and looked over at his wall to review his progress. His old notes were gone, replaced with a branching, fractal-like tree of new ones. Thanks to hours of Google searches, he’d methodically diagramed a plan.

The top of the tree listed all his assumptions. He’d made a lot of those. One of his first was that he’d be going to a fantasy world, and that there’d be combat. His next was that the wording of the warning was precise for a reason; once the portal opened, he’d be able to use tools from Earth to assist him on the other side. With those ideas in mind, he’d built a gamified version of what he needed to do. The next few months would have to be packed with as much combat training and physical exercise as he could manage, along with whatever applicable non-combat skills he could learn.

Daunted, but satisfied with his progress, Ty took three steps and collapsed on his thin mattress. Dreams found him the moment his eyes closed.

He was hovering over a vast, jagged mountain range. Snow-capped peaks jutted into the air, where swirls of snow danced across the ridges. Walking along one lip of stone, moving effortlessly, was an ebony woman with large, inquisitive eyes. She wore a silk gown that hugged her curvaceous body, the thin material rippling in the constant breeze. The cold did not touch her. Coming to a stop at a point along the mountain, the woman tilted her head to the sky. Her chiseled features were exquisitely beautiful, almost painful to look at even to Ty’s unconscious mind.

“It is time,” the woman called. Her shadow rose behind her, solidifying into a perfect duplicate of its owner. It flew into the air, hovering ten feet above the woman, before a ring of golden runes appeared nearby. Light flashed among the runes, revealing distant stars. The shadow flitted through the opening, and the runes vanished.

“Let them have their Resonance. Their ending has already been written.” The woman’s lips curled in a vulpine smile.

A moment later, Ty was hovering in space. Stars swirled, pooling clusters of color into a whirling galaxy shape. Hovering in the center of the light was a jagged-edged tear. Oily, winged shapes ripped free of the fissure, clawing from some distant universe and into his. A vast, wet mass pushed through the opening, forcing it wider to accommodate its bulk. Thousands of glowing red eyes covered the thing, each staring past him at a world with two moons.

Nausea gripped him. His stomach clenched, and his heart ached.

One eye twitched in his direction and the weight of the universe folded in on him, pushing Ty free of the dream.

Ty woke, the dreams as clear as memories, his breath coming in pants. He lay there, fighting terror, for most of an hour. Nothing he’d seen made sense. It could have been prophecy, warning, or a distant vision of what was happening in another world for all he knew. It didn’t feel like the fiery visitation, but that didn’t mean much.

Maybe it’s a warning. Maybe I was just shown what I’ll be up against? If that was true, it meant that he needed to adjust his plans. One key piece of gamer knowledge he’d learned over the years was to adapt according to the campaign he was in. If the game was a one-off, a quick little power trip or exploration scenario, he’d pick his gear and character build to optimize for a couple sessions. There was no need for anything long-term. In an epic campaign, long-term strategy was the key to success.

Ty rolled out of bed and walked to his pile of notes, adding observations and adjustments to them. He scratched out “Power level ASAP” and replaced it with “Be different.”

After he’d tweaked and reviewed his outline, he got dressed and left his room. The rent-controlled apartment he shared with his grandmother was small, and it was generous to call the steps to the living room a hallway. His grandmother was asleep in her rocking chair just a few feet from the television, a blanket tucked just beneath her chin. She looked older and thinner than he’d like, but there was still stubborn strength in the line of her jaw. Despite her age, Ty knew she could still be a force to be reckoned with. The woman had raised him into early adulthood, and he knew all too well what she was capable of.

“Stop staring at me,” Grandma Blaire croaked out, popping one dark eye open to glare at him. “What’s up? Are you hungry? Eggs again?”

Sometimes Ty wondered whether his grandmother took notes from crotchety old people on the shows she watched.

“Cheese eggs would be good,” Ty admitted. “Also, do you have any of the old gaming books stored anywhere?” Growing up, he hadn’t had many friends. When he’d developed an interest in tabletop roleplaying games, his grandmother had taken on reading the books and becoming his first Game Master. This was before he’d found online gaming. None of the books in the image had been gaming books per se, but all of them included gaming-adjacent elements and he needed to be thorough.

Maybe that ten-foot pole would come in useful in the other world.

Popping her other eye open, Blaire worked her way to her feet and folded her blanket. Both Grandma Blaire and Grandpa Billy had been in the military, and Blaire still maintained some of those habits. Not that either of them had passed that knowledge down to Ty. The only trait he’d inherited from either of them was his obsessive need to control a situation as much as he could.

Grandpa Billy’s motto had been, “Be prepared or be fucked by those who are.” Ty had taken the saying to heart.

“Of course I have them. Why? Are you thinking of getting back into gaming with friends? If so, I support it. You really need to get out more. Make real friends, not just sit and stare at the computer all day. Hell, maybe you’ll meet a girl.” Blaire walked to the closet, where they stored the games. Her thin arms shook slightly as she picked out a stack of worn manuals. She carried them to the dining table and set them down with a thud.

Ty hesitated. Seeing how frail she’d become reminded him of his doubts the night before. Could he really leave Blaire behind, potentially forever?

Guilt rose, but he forced it aside. One of his assumptions was that he’d either receive some way to preserve Blaire’s life, or that he’d ultimately return to Earth and be better equipped to help her through whatever came next. If he let doubt or fear rule his every thought, he’d get nothing done.

Don’t complicate things. Keep it simple: prepare, train, focus on the big plan. Assume the worst, hope for the best.

“Grandma, I’m thinking of enlisting. But first I need to get myself together. I want to take some classes and learn to shoot. I may need some help getting what I need together. Will you loan me some money, if I need it for equipment or a gym membership or something?”

Blaire stood in place, glaring at him. “What does enlisting have to do with your old gaming books?” She seemed about to say more, then hesitated. One hand lingering on the books, she assessed him with a critical gaze. Ty was tall, just over six feet, and wasn’t dramatically out of shape. He wasn’t in shape either. It wasn’t like he’d maintained a gym membership for the last few years, nor did he like to leave the house. If Blaire hadn’t been the one overseeing their simple meals, no doubt Ty would have been in trouble. He loved chocolate.

“Enlisting?” Blaire asked, chewing on the word. “I guess it makes sense. Your mom and dad weren’t big on the military, you know. But the military might be a way for you to get out and build some sort of future. Assuming you don’t get dead.”

Ty just let Blaire vent; interrupting when she was on a rant often led to dire consequences.

Glancing down to the books, then across the room to a small bookshelf, she said, “You know what Billy and your dad would say, right? They’d tell you to think hard about what you’re going to do. They’d remind you of the importance of being a good person.” After his father’s death and his mother’s long absence, Blaire and Grandpa Billy had become everything to Ty. They’d done their best to handle his strange behaviors, even trying to teach him to be the best person he could be.

“I know,” Ty said.

Rapping her knuckles against the top book, Blaire said, “You know the military isn’t going to make you into a character from your books. You’re not going to become some sort of ninja-assassin, or soul-drinking badass. This is real life. You’ll need to be disciplined, follow orders, and make hard decisions. Are you sure this is something you want?”

“Yeah, I think so.” He didn’t have a choice, not if he wanted to be the man his grandparents had tried to raise him to be.

Blaire wasn’t religious, but both she and Billy had been deeply spiritual. Billy had taught Ty the basics of meditation and even given him a book on “Right Living.” On nights when Blaire wasn’t acting as his personal dungeon master or discussing fantasy books with him, Billy had made it a point to take time to engage in discussions about ethics and moral behavior.

Neither had said so, but Ty figured they were both worried he might act out one day. He didn’t see things the way other people did sometimes. That was part of why his mother left.

Reflecting on the situation, Ty abruptly wondered what the other random people would see as their inspiration for visiting the other world? He doubted they were all just like him. Would someone with a different background be told to watch Narnia, Star Dust, or Silent Hill? Maybe with some Conan or Rambo mixed in?

Blaire agreed to lend Ty money for his preparation. She didn’t have much. Her combined retirement with Grandpa’s was enough to keep them going and put Ty back into college if he wanted, and not much more.

He thanked her, helped her make her amazing cheesy eggs, then retreated to his room. It was time to begin the next phase.

He took stock.

Ty didn’t bring much to the table, other than being relatively young and not unhealthy. Compared to the characters in the books listed in the fire, he had an advantage because he knew what was coming. Only the main character in Heroes Die had been well-adapted and ready for his adventures. That book was odd, though. That it was included suggested several things. First, the protagonist in that book had gone back and forth between worlds based on a schedule. Second, there’d been a decidedly sci-fi and apocalyptic feel to the world. He wasn’t sure how to make those facts fit with the traditional portal fantasy setup, so he ignored them.

Plan for the worst, hope for the best.

Between predatory loans and a small grant from Blaire, he believed he could scrape together around eighty-thousand dollars over the course of a few days. It felt like a lot of money, and not enough all at once.

Walking the tiny circuit of his open floor, Ty went through the plans he’d developed the night before.

There was no telling what the rules, limitations, or layout of the other world would be. He may or may not have access to fresh food or water. There might not be any local resources at all. He’d need to bring his own supplies and know how to find more if the worst came down to it. That meant hunting and fishing were a priority.

Combat was going to happen. Other than basic survival, his top priority was getting himself ready for actual life or death situations. Whether it was monsters, aliens, locals, or other players, he’d eventually have to fight.

“The question is, will this be all player-versus-environment or player-versus-player?” He asked out loud, seeing how either idea made him feel.

He didn’t relish the idea of killing. Not that the notion itself bothered him; he knew, intellectually, that animals died for food and hunting as sport was a good thing. He also figured if monsters were real and attacking him, he’d have no qualms about defending himself. On the other hand, there was something inherently messy about the notion of taking a life. Thinking of killing other people, either locals or other players, made him uneasy, so he ignored that train of thought all together.

Plan for the worst, hope for the best.

Ty started a new list, making two columns. In the first column, he wrote all the things he knew he had to do. He had to get in shape; manage his time, and so on. In the second column, he listed the classes he needed to take. A lot went into that column, complete with every type of martial arts instruction he’d found in the area.

Thankfully, he and Grandma lived in one of the most metropolitan cities in the country. He’d found instructors for most of what he’d needed within a forty-five-minute drive. There was a fencing and historic martial arts group just south of the city, and one of the most popular fighting gyms in the world was just a few miles down the road.

Sitting at his computer, Ty began mapping out his ideal plan onto a spreadsheet. He listed each skill he wanted and cross-referenced it with locations, times of availability, user ratings, cost, and drive time. Treating the sheet like he would a gaming campaign, he plotted ways to maximize his uptime, minimize his downtime, and use every penny effectively. He even researched optimal nutrition and recovery times, just to be sure he was giving his body every opportunity to recover and adapt.

Once he had the list together, each line color-coded based on desirability, he began calling and emailing each of the locations, starting with the top picks and working his way down.

By noon, he had an optimized schedule, along with driving routes, mapped out. He’d even allowed himself a solid ten hours of sleep a night, once he quit his day job. Quitting was a requirement, he knew, if he was going to manage enough time to accomplish anything meaningful. The final total for all the training and the associated equipment was just twenty-four thousand dollars. That included multiple one-on-one training sessions with world-class professionals. Compared to his salary, it was a lot of money. Given the predicted value, it was a bargain.

Ty first called his job to quit. It was an uncomfortable conversation, considering that he wasn’t giving them two-weeks’ notice. He used the rest of the day to get his money in order. The shady loan companies were happy to send him the money, along with paperwork agreeing to twenty-five percent, compound interest. The rest of the day was spent filling out applications and driving to places in-person when they didn’t have an online signup option.

He didn’t enjoy leaving the apartment. His car was old and borderline dangerous to drive. The last time he’d been able to afford fresh brakes was nearly three years ago, shortly after he’d inherited it from his father. Worse yet, there were people outside. Behind computers, with the concrete clarity of text, people were so much easier to talk to and understand. In the real world, there was subtext, pretext, and agendas, none of which made any sense.

If there’d been any other way to go about his plan, he’d have done everything from the comfort of his home. The plan was everything, though. He had to execute.

As he went through the day, Ty wondered about the circumstances he’d find himself in on the other side of the portal. He’d assumed that the other world would be full of magic and other fantasy elements, but what about the variables? How would travel from one world to the other work? If he gained magical powers in one, would they function to the other? Would any of the equipment he planned to buy work in a magical world? If he brought guns, would physics apply normally? Would loot from the fantasy world transfer to back to Earth? If so, would it function?

During one of his stops, Ty sat in his car and jotted down his thoughts, listing the keywords of each carefully. He decided that, like with his training, his best bet was to assume the worst. If he planned on things breaking, on not being able to bring the loot back, and so on, then he could only be pleasantly surprised if they did.

I might die on the other side, Ty thought, twisting the idea in his mind. Oddly, the concept wasn’t as terrifying as it probably should have been. People? Scary. Situations he couldn’t plan for or control? Terrifying. What was death, but the ultimate outcome everyone had to plan for?

If he didn’t return, his primary concern was leaving Blaire behind without support, and potentially saddled with covering his bills. He considered getting a life insurance policy. Would one cover him vanishing months after he got it, though? Probably not. He also didn’t want to ask her if she had one on him. Knowing her, she probably did.

Let’s face it, she takes care of me more than I do of her. I need to focus on the objectives in front of me and worry less about things I can’t control.

If Ty had one superpower, it was his ability to compartmentalize. Sometimes he felt like his mind was a vault, a place he could consciously arrange and sort. Once he decided something, he just put everything else, every distraction, away. He did that now, taking every concern about his absence and shuffling them into a corner at the back of his mind. His focus renewed, he put his notes away and continued to the next stop on his list.

Once he got home that evening, Ty set about making a list of the equipment he’d be bringing with him. Since the portal would be open for three minutes, and it would open wherever he was, he took the wording to mean he could game the system. Over the next weeks, depending on his training, he would make a list of items that he could afford that were legal, and that could reasonably fit on a trailer or some sort of wagon.

The idea of driving a wagon full of modern goods into a fantasy world made Ty smile. Feeling accomplished, he went to sleep with a sense of satisfaction. Everything was coming together. He had a plan, and he’d pulled the trigger on executing it. All he had to do was hang on for six months.

Chapter 3: Hanging On

Time Until Portal Opening: 0 Months, 3 weeks, 2 days

Ty woke as he had for almost every day of the last five months: sore. Based on his estimates, he’d hoped to dedicate at least seven hundred meaningful hours of training before the portal opened. Injuries, a cold, holidays, and doctor visits for grandma had taken a chunk out of that number.

Rolling out of bed, he groaned as he padded to the wall. The note-fractal was streamlined these days, left only with the things he had yet to accomplish or was close to completing. A pile of discarded paper sat at the edge of his computer desk, complete with lists of skills he’d been unable to pick up quickly enough. Spear fishing was not as easy as he’d hoped. After his morning review, he turned to look at the mirror that he’d hung on the back of his bedroom door.

He had begun his training soft, with bad posture and no experience with anything physically taxing. Now, he looked a lot more like any other athletic college student his age. Part of him felt disappointed he hadn’t changed more, maybe taken on the appearance of a fitness influencer or something. Still, he had a confidence and facility with his body now that he imagined most people his age would respect.

On a positive note, the skills he’d gained overshadowed his lack of physical transformation.

After reviewing his schedule for the day, he sat in front of his computer and re-read sections from the books mentioned in the prophecy. He’d found himself returning to Thomas Covenant time and time again, drawn inexplicably to the brutality of the mythical world, and of the mistakes the ‘hero’ had made. It was that fascination that drove many of his plans for what would come next.

There were objective truths in the world. There was a way to choose right over wrong, good over evil. Once he knew what he was dealing with, Ty was determined to play whatever game this was by his rules, no matter what.

He dressed, gathered his equipment, and left his room.

“You should take more time off, kiddo,” Blaire announced as he walked in. He’d slept late, nearly until noon, and she was busy making lunch. Ty could smell chicken sizzling on the pan and saw several plates of fruit and vegetables already laid out. Despite the meals he prepared for himself, Grandma had insisted on doing what she could to support him.

Over the past months, Blaire had begun treating Ty differently. For years, she’d taken an overt, almost protective, interest in anything he did. Now she was supportive of ‘whatever fun insanity’ he was up to and left him alone.

Oddly, Ty felt closer to his grandmother lately than he had since Billy passed.

“No can do,” he replied, swinging his golf bag down and resting it against a wall before taking a seat at the dining table. Their kitchen was part of the living room, less in an open-floor-plan kind of way and more of a very-limited-space kind of way. If they didn’t live in apartments near downtown, someone might have mistaken their home for a single-wide trailer. Ty’s kitchen seat was barely six feet away from the stove and microscopic dishwasher.

“You know,” Ty said thoughtfully, “if you didn’t cook the way you do, I doubt I’d have been anywhere near the shape I am now.” He patted his stomach to reinforce the words. His gut was almost gone, something Blaire had remarked on regularly.

Blaire snorted. “If you’d spent literally any of your life outside for more than school, you’d be collecting girls, not swords right now.”

“Are you still pissed that I took up HEMA?” he asked. The historical martial arts group specialized in recreating actual combat techniques from the past. Joining them had been the simplest way for him to learn sword fighting realistically, without taking up fencing.

No one fenced in fantasy books.

Dipping her spatula into the sizzling pan, Blaire made a practiced motion and flipped one breast onto a plate. She paused long enough to pass it to him before replying. “Fuck yes I am. Chasing people around with swords might help with your cardio, but otherwise it isn’t going to do shit in the real military. The gun stuff, sure. I approve of basically everything you’ve said you’re doing. But swords and dress up? It just feels frivolous.”

Ty shrugged her complaints off and tucked into the food. She wasn’t wrong, and he was tired of the argument. He’d explained more than once that HEMA and sword fighting helped with his martial arts. Like she’d said, there was the cardio aspect, but there was also the balance and diversity it brought to his skill set. Hell, one of the best things it did was teach him how to take a hit. Blaire wasn’t about to accept that logic.

To Blaire’s point, he had no clue which skills or equipment he’d invested in would legitimately show value in the other world. He’d had to rank his options, price them, and make educated guesses. What he did know was that the books in the prophecy had given him an advantage he was not about to squander. How would Thomas Covenant have fared if he’d gone into the other world optimistically, with genuine enthusiasm and appreciation for the world, as well as a high-powered, long-range rifle?

He had no plans to kill anyone who wasn’t a monster. If another “player” attacked him, well, he’d see.

“What’s today?” Blaire asked as she slid into the seat across from him with her plate.

Eyeing his grandmother, Ty stood up and got filtered water for them both. The little red light on the filter blinked when he turned it on. Since he’d taken his loans out and put literally everything into the training and preparation, some necessities around the house had fallen through the cracks.

“The range, then gym and Krav Maga,” he answered. “Jim says I’ll qualify for my brown belt soon. Another two or three months and he thinks I’d qualify for black.” Ty had made progress in a lot of areas; he was at least capable of foraging for nuts and berries now, and he knew how to skin and prepare his own food. He also knew how to shoot a variety of guns and use a bow. But the areas he’d excelled at had shocked him. When it came to knives, swords, and Krav Maga, Ty was exceptional.